General Requirements 																		
F-1	"The proposed EHR System is an overall integrated solution, including the following components: Scheduling, Registration, Order Entry, Results Viewing, Clinical Documentation (physician and nursing), Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE), Radiology, Lab, Pharmacy, OR, ER, ICU, HIM Utilization review, and utilization management."																	
F-2	"The proposed EHR System is integrated across the Inpatient and Outpatient continuum of care through workflows, document types and result displays.  If a patient has several Outpatient visits and is admitted as an Inpatient, care teams must be able to access the patient?s clinical history.  Conversely, if an Inpatient is discharged, Ambulatory teams must be able to access the patient?s clinical, demographic history. "																	
F-3	"The system has the capability to alert physicians during order entry or clinical documentation to identify adverse conditions or to notify physician of actions that need to be taken as part of a requirement as a designed workflow (e.g., co-sign orders for a resident). "																	
F-4	The system has capability to identify the current physical location of any patient during their stay. 																	
F-5	The system has capability to support a purge cycle to allow database maintenance.  																	
F-6	The system has the capability to have an automated recovery.    																	
F-7	The system has the capability for a single point to view complete medical record for both inpatient and outpatient health records. 																	
F-8	"The system supports the workflow solution in a teaching hospital for interdisciplinary documentation and allows for multiple e-signatures / authentication across disciplines (i.e., Co-signature of orders / documentation for Resident physicians by Attending physicians)"																	
F-9	The system has capability to support industry standards for Security and Reliability. 																	
F-10	The system has capability of parameter-specific identification of patient problems and goals. 																	
F-11	"The system has capability to have a patient education module that addresses the needs of the LA County population (e.g. multilingual, ADA compliant, etc.)."																	
F-12	The system has capability to have voice recognition.																	
F-13	The system has capability to capture a picture of the patient at the point of service. 																	
F-14	The system has capability to generate alerts if clinical documentation or orders are altered after initial sign-off by an authorized physician. 																	
F-15	The system has capability to capture the date and time the record was entered into the system or edited. 																	
F-16	"The system has capability to capture the user's information, both internal and external, who created and/or edited the record. "																	
F-17	The system has capability to perform nursing assessments.																	
F-18	The system has capability to perform medical assessments. 																	
F-19	The system has capability to automatically populate demographic fields.																	
F-20	The system has capability to show the patient's medication history.																	
F-21	"The system has capability to manage, track and report user access to a specific patient's data."																	
F-22	The system has capability to comply with HIPAA Standards for Electronic Transactions.																	
F-23	"The system has capability to integrate the diagnostics from other systems (e.g., fetal monitoring strips, OB strips, etc.)"																	
F-24	"The system has capability of importing and export patient demographic data via HL7 interface from an existing Practice Management System, Patient Registration System, or any such system used for patient registration and/or scheduling. "																	
F-25	"The system has capability to import, create, review, and edit non-clinical information from the patient record.  "																	
F-26	The system has capability to use visual cues to highlight abnormal results. 																	
F-27	The system has capability to accommodate multiple levels of role-based user access that restrict access to the appropriate role. 																	
F-28	"The system has capability to display bed census by nurse station, and Provider. "																	
F-29	"The system has capability to support electronic signatures and other identifiers for authorization and consent forms.  Please include in your response how the system will prompt for the signature as well as where/how it is used for both internal and external user (e.g., patients, staff, providers, witnesses)"																	
F-30	"The system has capability to support the creation of patient identifying bar code on face sheets, patient labels and identification cards with pictures.   "																	
F-31	"The system has capability to provide the creation of user defined prompts, alerts and fields to capture information. "																	
F-32	The system has capability to identify clinicians for the provision of care.																	
F-33	The system has capability to display age with no greater specificity than days when time of birth is not recorded.																	
F-34	The system has capability to use age in hours of life when time of birth is recorded including through the 7th day of life.																	
F-35	The system has capability to allow the recording of an infant?s gestational age including age at the time of birth.   																	
F-36	"The system has capability to use pediatric-specific reference ranges for vital signs.  (e.g., use of metric and US standard units of measure, such as pounds and kilograms)  "																	
F-37	The system has capability to document a patient assent for situations where the patient is legally unable to consent. 																	
F-38	The system has capability to document the name of one or more witness(es) to the patient assent.																	
F-39	The system has capability to document the names and addresses for patient?s personal representatives with contact information for each to include one or more telephone numbers and addresses.																	
F-40	"The system has capability to document the date, time and lack of assent or consent in emergency treatment when a legal guardian is not available or present."																	
F-41	The system has capability for tracking patient ID changes and merges.																	
F-42	The system has capability to allow multiple users to enter data for a single encounter simultaneously.																	
F-43	The system has capability to make changes to complete encounters.																	
F-44	The system has capability to link consult encounters with consult orders. 																	
F-45	The system has capability to have technical modules that collect medical history. 																	
F-46	"The system has capability to automatically check for and warn of duplicate orders, within a user-defined period of time. "																	
F-47	"The system has capability to electronically provide patient reports on demand following and allow for hiding private information to comply with HIPAA Privacy and Security requirements. Format of reports should include the following: fax, mobile device, pager, electronic storage devices (e.g. flash drive, CDs)."																	
F-48	The system has capability to send a scheduling confirmation to the requesting system. 																	
F-49	The system has capability to request a scheduling confirmation. 																	
F-50	The system has capability to designate a primary clinician.																	
F-51	The system has capability to have rules-based chemotherapy management component.																	
F-52	"The system has capability to display standard orders sets based on diagnosis (e.g. diabetes), including advising for required lab work per quality indicators (A1c, Lipid panel)."																	
F-53	"The system has capability to import patient health history data, including obstetrical history data, from an existing system (e.g., eko ,etc.)."																	
F-54	"The system has capability to support the capture, graphic display of, and plotting of ""Growth Chart"" information."																	
F-55	The system has capability to provide a mechanism to capture history of current illness.																	
F-56	"The system has capability to capture, track and print referral information including the process to accept a referral and to notify the referring source of the acceptance."																	
F-57	"The system has capability to capture, track and print consultations. "																	
F-58	"The system has capability to support remote system monitoring technology, such as network access control, performance monitoring, "																	
F-59	The system has capability to access subspecialty attending on-call lists when transferring and receiving patients between hospitals.																	
F-60	"The system has capability to display results in a customizable, intuitive, flexible format.  "																	
F-61	The system has the capability to support real-time or retrospective trending and analysis. 																	
F-62	The system has the capability of charting on-screen view of patient process toward meeting clinical goals.  																	
F-63	The system has the capability to maintain a directory which identifies the physician by multiple unique identifiers.																	
F-64	The system has the capability to allow vital sign/growth data to be normed against either/both male/female gender with transparency to the user regarding which default is being applied.																	
F-65	The system has the capability to notify user of ED visits.																	
F-66	The system has the capability to post a note from the web signoff.																	
F-67	The system has the ability to plot patient results and trends in graph form.																	
F-68	The system has the ability to upload historical information from both internal and external sources.																	
F-69	The system has the ability to track and record infection control data and reporting (statistic and/or patient specific).																	
F-70	"The system has the ability to alert staff of patients with highly sensitive Infection Control alerts (e.g., MRSA)."																	
Registration  Requirements	"Tracking
"																	
F-71	"The system has an Enterprise Registration Module with automated workflow including the processes of registration, admitting, transfers, and discharges in any clinical domain, including hospitals, physician offices, clinics, Ambulatory settings, and home health agencies."																	
F-72	The system has the capability to integrate and create a unique Master Person Identifier (MPI) that becomes the basis for coordinating the person?s movement across an integrated or disparate health system.																	
F-73	The system has the capability to accommodate provider and researcher account types.																	
F-74	The system has a scheduling/registration product that can add a Newborn scenario including during a downtime scenario.																	
F-75	"The system has a scheduling/registration product that can Add/Modify scenarios (e.g., Inpatient, Outpatient, ER, Quick - Registration, Pre-Admit, series account). "																	
F-76	"The system has the ability to Add/Modify person scenarios including:
1) Bed Swap
2) Observation beds
3) Change of service
4) Cancel Encounter
5) Cancel Encounter Discharge
6) Cancel Encounter Transfer
7) Cancel Leave of Absence
8) Cancel Pending Encounter Discharge
9) Cancel Pending Encounter Transfer
10) Complete Encounter Discharge
11) Complete Encounter Transfer
12) Discharge Encounter
13) Leave of Absence
"																	
F-77	The system has the capability to use rules associated with required prompts that can either be used as warning to the usre or prevent moving to a next step until a specific action has been taken.																	
F-78	The system has the capability to generate differencing registration reports.																	
F-79	The system has the capability to generate bar code labels on laser printers for patient identification.																	
F-80	"The system supports pre-built or easily designed Standard Documents for Armband labels, Sheet labels (Admission label), Face sheets, Admit Notice, Discharge Notice, Transfer Notice, Cancel Discharge Notice, MSP Document, Document Routing printed on laser printer."																	
F-81	The system generates work lists (queues) including: Medicare Secondary Payer (MSP) Follow-up; Pre-Registration; Dirty Beds; Discharge Follow-up; ER Quick Registration Follow-up;  Insurance Verification; Past Due Arrival; Pending Arrival;  Leave of Absence View; Unauthenticated Employer;  Miscellaneous Insurance; Interpreter Required; Privacy Practice; Accommodation Mismatch; Nurse Unit Inquiry; Name Inquiry.																	
F-82	"The system has the capability to register a large number of patients who arrive at the ER (QuickReg) as a result of a disaster involving casualties (e.g., train accident, earthquake, etc.). "																	
F-83	The system allows to search for and potentially match QuickReg records with existing patient records in the system.																	
F-84	The system assists matching records created in the quick registration process with existing record for the same patient.																	
F-85	The system allows authorized users to merge matching records																	
F-86	The system supports patient locator functionality such as viewing of patients and their location for information or help desk.  Includes the ability to customize so that only those patient classes a facility desires will show up on the locator; also includes the capability to indicate which patients want to opt out of being listed in the patient directory.																	
F-87	"The system supports historical patient lookup functionality such as  viewing a patient?s locations (e.g., where they have been transferred to and from; view of all patients who have historically been in a given location during a time period)."																	
F-88	The system supports bed board functionality such as providing a view of beds including their status and occupancy information at either the nurse unit level or for an entire site.																	
F-89	"The system supports the Bed Board application of transfer and discharge patients, as well as to update the status of a bed."																	
F-90	"The system has the capability to allow multiple addresses, permanent and temporary. "																	
F-91	"The system has the capability to import, create, review, edit, and export  patient demographic information."																	
F-92	The system has the capability to conduct eligibility checking and documenting for all commercial health plans and Medicaid.																	
F-93	The system has the capability to print out medical summary.																	
F-94	"The system has the capability to access insurance information from within the system; and determines proper billing codes including administration codes (i.e., vaccine, shots, etc.)."																	
F-95	"The system has the capability to provide a Worklist component to handle list of incoming scheduling requests, including urgency of appointment."																	
F-96	The system has the capability to send transportation requests.																	
F-97	"The system has the capability to capture and display separate physician names for attending, admitting, consulting, referral, and primary care physician at the visit level."																	
F-98	The system has the capability to capture and display comments in the form of comment fields (free form text and pre-defined values/notes).																	
F-99	The system has the capability for notification of IP Admissions.																	
Scheduling Requirements																		
F-100	"The system has the capability to optimize the scheduling of persons, staff, and other resources, reducing costs and dramatically increasing efficiency in this key area of access services."																	
F-101	The system manages multiple resources or other appointment books displayed together.																	
F-102	"The system supports scheduling for Physical Therapy, Occupational Therapy, Rehabilitation Therapy areas and all Radiology modalities."																	
F-103	The system supports scheduling for the appointment types.																	
F-104	The system supports scheduling for multiple slot types.																	
F-105	The system has the capability to support default schedules utilizing more than one slot type that is used to predefine the use of time for a resource.  The system will need the support capability of up to and beyond 5000 default schedules.																	
F-106	The system allows scheduling templates in the future.																	
F-107	"System functionality exists that allows the capture of additional information regarding requested appointment type, such as reason for exam, ICD-9/ICD-10 codes, referring physician, etc."																	
F-108	The scheduling/registration Module has the capability to flex the details captured for a selected appointment type. There is no limitation to the number of accepted formats. 																	
F-109	Resource roles are logical groupings of resources used primarily to assist with database maintenance.   The proposed EHR System is able to manage the resource roles necessary to support the environment similar to LAC DHS. 																	
F-110	Resource Lists is functionality to define a list of resources that are valid to be scheduled to a certain appointment type. The proposed EHR System is able to manage the resource lists necessary to support the environment similar to LAC DHS.																	
F-111	The system has the capability to upload historical schedules.																	
F-112	The system has the functionality to define a list of resources that are valid to be scheduled to a certain appointment type.  This will need to include multiple resource lists.																	
F-113	The system has functionality to indicate if multiple appointments interact when booked too closely together.  																	
F-114	"The system addresses Preparations, Guidelines, and Post Appointment Instructions."																	
F-115	The system has the capability to utilize Action Comments; Booking Notes; Scheduling Comments; Warning Overrides; Resource Comments; Encounter Comments; Person Comments.  																	
F-116	The system utilizes the capability to capture referral info at the time the appointment is being made and the ability to display the information when viewing details of the appointment. 																	
F-117	"The system utilizes the capability to capture (at the time of patient discharge) diagnosis codes, procedure codes, caregivers, responsible physician, disposition, and any charges."																	
F-118	The system integrates the use of registration conversations and conversation flexing logic for Radiology Integration including capability to schedule radiology patient appointments: Surgical Management Integration including capability to assign surgical case numbers; evaluate historical and recent procedure durations; apply preference cards to the scheduling process; perform dynamic and block scheduling.																	
F-119	The system has functionality for Enterprise Eligibility/Enterprise Benefits Management Integration which includes capability to verify insurance eligibility information during the scheduling process and capability to check for the medical necessity of procedures based on diagnosis combinations.																	
F-120	The system addresses Orders Integration such as Scheduling to orders.																	
F-121	"The system has the capability to link orderable to scheduling appointments, which can create the order in future status until appointment check-in;  Orders to Scheduling:  The system has the capability to support Radiology procedures that need to be scheduled and are ordered in Electronic Health Record product. "																	
F-122	The system has functionality for scheduling request queues that prompt user to make registration appointment if any outpatient appointment has expiration prior to next appointment visit. 																	
F-123	The system has the capability to by-pass need for financial assessment appointment based on patient referral type. 																	
F-124	The system has functionality/capability at Patient Arrival that would restrict patient check-in from occurring before the date of the appointment. 																	
F-125	The system has functionality for ?View only access/Full Access? including capability to restrict scheduling based upon location. 																	
F-126	"The system has the capability and workflow to Schedule Multiple Appointments, Schedule a Recurring Appointment, Add a Patient while entering appointment information, Reschedule an Appointment, Cancel an Appointment, Check In an Appointment, Check Out an Appointment, Record a No Show, and View the History of an Appointment."																	
F-127	The system has the ability to schedule a referral patient (non-registered) and collect associated documentation for the referral.																	
F-128	The system has a process for archiving and/or purging of data.																	
Clinical Documentation Requirements																		
F-129	The system has the capability to automate the following processes for Nursing or Ancillary Departments:   Admission Process;  Ongoing Assessment Process;  Intake and Output;  Routine Care and Functional activities;  Non Scheduled Documentation such as Ad Hoc Charting;  Shift Change Report;  Patient Assignment;  Results Viewing.																	
F-130	The system has the functionality to facilitate the need to automate the intake and output flow sheet calculations along with fluid balance in a graphic view.																	
F-131	"The system has functionality that addresses Results Viewing and facilitates the need to automate the custom views for clinical modalities such as Nursing, Physician, Administration, and  Ancillary Departments."																	
F-132	"The system has the functionality to address Shift Assignment:  The product will need to include the functionality to automate the Assignment of patients to a group of care givers or an individual care giver.   Provide a high level overview of key information, notification source, for important interval data and a launch pad to vital and related applications."																	
F-133	"The system has the functionality that addresses Task Lists:
  ? Product functionality to facilitate the need to automate the Nursing and 
    departmental documentation tasks including single and multi-patient task lists utilized to support Nursing and departmental processing.
  ? Functionality to include a unique task list for each defined position.
  ? Task list functionality to support forms documentation along with 
    complete/incomplete charting."																	
F-134	The system has the capability to automate the following reports:  Active Order Report; All Task Report; Overdue Task Report; Diet Report; Intake and Output Summary; Report that can flex to utilize 8 and 12 hour versions for Shift Assignment Reporting. Also functionality for Charge Services/Documentation Management to support at the capture of charges based upon the completion of tasks.																	
F-135	The system has the capability to present to a user condition specific care plans or guidelines based on vital signs outside of a specific range.																	
F-136	The system has the capability to specify the level of authorization to make decisions on behalf of the patient and to designate primary and secondary caregivers.																	
F-137	The system has the capability to produce adverse-event reporting and documentation.																	
F-138	The system has the capability to inform the clinician of recommended or required immunizations based on patient risk factors and other criteria as identified in widely accepted immunization schedules and recommendations.																	
F-139	The system has the capability to record the date and time (if known) of vaccine reaction or allergic occurrence.																	
F-140	The system has the capability to calculate Body Surface Area and support (BSA)-based dosing when recommended for a medication.																	
F-141	The system has the capability to resolve dosing based on weight or BSA to a finite dose. 																	
F-142	The system has the capability to use a weight-based or BSA-based dose that is entered ad hoc and subsequently be able to resolve such entered doses to finite doses.																	
F-143	The system has the capability to document Admission History using  documentation templates.  The EHR System needs to provide the functionality to carry forward previous visit history into the current visit template.																	
F-144	The system has the capability to customize template fields to be tied to standard nomenclature. 																	
F-145	The system has the capability for front-end speech recognition integrated into documentation tools. 																	
F-146	The system has the capability to integrate images directly into documentation.																	
F-147	"The system has the capability to select diagnoses, medications, and procedures from pre-defined lists."																	
F-148	The system has the capability to quickly update care plans.  																	
F-149	The system has the capability to have supervisory review integrated into documentation workflow. 																	
F-150	The system has the capability to track ancillary documentation.																	
F-151	The system has the capability to have template-driven charting.																	
F-152	The system has the capability to provide documentation templates to support Anti-coagulation/Coumadin Management. 																	
F-153	"The system has the capability to provide documentation templates to support Psychiatry, Orthopedics, Oncology, Pre-Operative Assessment, History and Physical, Physical Exam, Operative Note, Labor and Delivery, Cardiac Resuscitation, Dental Note, Ophthalmology Note, Family Planning, Urology Record, Sickle Cell Record, Neurology Note.  "																	
F-154	The system has the capability to support resident/attending signoff relationships and attestation. (Co-signature workflow)																	
F-155	The system has the capability to provide messaging system for all clinical results.  This would include examples like placing a record of result review and acknowledgement in patient's chart.																	
F-156	The system has the capability to automatically shift results message streams to new caregiver for sign out purposes. 																	
F-157	"The system has the capability to Integrate with pager, cell phone, and email technologies to provide critical results reporting in real time."																	
F-158	The system has the capability for an escalation process for critical results if not acknowledged in a specified time frame. 																	
F-159	The system has the capability to track active and inactive patient problems.																	
F-160	The system has the capability for automatic problem generation based on diagnoses in medical record.  																	
F-161	The system has the capability to integrate CPT & ICD-9/10 Codes.  Solution- provided aids for completing the template based on entry.																	
F-162	The system has the capability to print clear summary for patients on discharge.  																	
F-163	The system has the capability for consolidated vital signs management across all service areas.																	
F-164	"The system has the capability to provide patient acuity classification score and other scoring tools (e.g., pain scores). "																	
F-165	The system has the capability to have field (entry) level edits and validation checking capability. 																	
F-166	The system has the capability to make nursing assignments.																	
F-167	The system has the capability to flag the nurse for missing or late documentation. 																	
F-168	The system has the capability to allow multiple users to view and update  the same record simultaneously.																	
F-169	The system has the capability to  provide knowledge references.																	
F-170	The system has the capability to have patient education library.																	
F-171	The system has the capability to customize handouts from print or email.																	
F-172	The system has the capability to have immunization registry function.																	
F-173	The system has the capability to capture & store risk factors for each new patient.																	
F-174	The system has the capability to capture & store social history elements. 																	
F-175	"The system has the capability to prompt clinicians to provide appropriate patient counseling, e.g., counsel patients on behavior, following treatment plans and taking medications."																	
F-176	The system has the capability to prompt the provider to inform the parent/child that their immunization information will be shared with the registry and Integrated Decision Support.																	
F-177	"The system has the capability to record progress notes utilizing a combination of system default, provider customizable, and provider-defined templates."																	
F-178	The system has the capability to automatically update other sections of the record with data entered in the progress note.																	
F-179	The system has the capability to enter performed and planned procedures on the progress note template after an encounter. 																	
F-180	The system has the capability to link the progress note to a diagnosis or a problem number 																	
F-181	The system has the capability to automatically capture the electronic signature and title of the person entering data and date/time stamp each transaction.																	
F-182	The system has the capability to view progress notes in chronological or reverse chronological order by encounter date in relation to the active care plan.																	
F-183	The system has the capability that applies security controls to progress notes to ensure that date cannot be deleted or altered except within the current session and by an authorized user.																	
F-184	The system has the capability to include a medical terminology dictionary within the progress notes data entry module.																	
F-185	The system has the capability to include a spell checker within the progress notes data entry module.																	
F-186	The system has the capability to support the automatic collection of data elements defined by the associated clinical practice guideline or order.																	
F-187	The system has the capability to provide a problem status for each shown problem.																	
F-188	The system has the capability to separate active from inactive problems.																	
F-189	The system has the capability that allows clinicians to identify and record new patient problems as well as the current status or existing problems.																	
F-190	The system has the capability to update the active problem list from relevant data in the progress note.																	
F-191	"The system has the capability to create, review, and edit information regarding a change on the status of a problem to include, but not be limited to, the date the change was first noticed or diagnosed."																	
F-192	The system has the capability to automatically update the diagnosis/problem lists with the capture of each new piece of patient data in any module.																	
F-193	The system has the capability to automatically link problems with order and results.																	
F-194	The system has the capability to automatically update the problem summary using new clinical information.																	
F-195	The system has the capability of allowing the display of past interventions for review at the option of the provider.																	
F-196	"The system has the capability of allowing the display of past hospitalizations, diagnostic procedures, & past therapies for review at the option of the provider."																	
F-197	The system has the capability to automatically update the problem summary lists upon detecting changes made to mutli-disciplinary guidelines. 																	
F-198	The system has the capability allow users overriding all or parts of a system provided guideline or protocol and prompt the user to indicate a reason for the override.  																	
F-199	The system has the capability to import/create information about the desired single or multi-disciplinary long/short term goals and objectives that will be accompanied by the care plan.																	
F-200	"The system has the capability to review, edit information about the proposed set of single or multi-disciplinary care plan options that are based upon expected outcomes."																	
F-201	The system has the capability to use existing documentation templates. 																	
F-202	The system has the capability to integrate all patient forms with electronic capture of the patient's signature. 																	
F-203	"The system has the capability to view assigned patients, utilization trends, on-call schedules on a dashboard."																	
F-204	The system has the capability for users to create their own preferred display formats.																	
F-205	"The system has the capability to display & print care plan by patient, nurse, physician, treatment type."																	
F-206	"The system has a solution for nursing and physician shift handoff that integrates documentation, results, and progress notes along with workflow sign off to efficiently and safely hand off patients to the next shift."																	
F-207	"The system has the capability for communication that will identify clinical teams and/or individual physicians on the team (Residents and/or Attending) so that if needed, the team/individual physician can be contacted by a covering physician.   ÿ"																	
F-208	"The system has the capability to auto translate based on documentation entered, prompt for additional supporting documentation and prompt for pertinent documentation (e.g., present on admission for optimal Medical Records coding)."																	
F-209	The system has the capability to provide computer aided coding for staff as forms and templates are completed.																	
F-210	The system has the capability to accept scanned documents and convert to a template to be used by other medical professionals.																	
F-211	The system has the capability for user-defined patient flow sheets.																	
F-212	The system has the capability to download branching logic charting methods. 																	
F-213	The system has the capability to provide a detailed outcome reporting to analyze and determine best practice. 																	
Order Management Requirements																		
F-214	"The system has the capacity of an 'enterprise clinical viewer' for viewing clinical results (e.g., pediatric growth charts, visit lists and others)."																	
F-215	"The system has the capability for clinical views of order sets, i.e., by care venues (Inpatient and Ambulatory), specialty or treatment plan."																	
F-216	"The system has the capability to view patient charts including result flowsheets, clinical notes, patient information and demographics, problem lists, pediatric growth charts, visit lists."																	
F-217	"The system has the capability to allow the creation of nursing orders, physician orders and order sets."																	
F-218	The system has a process flow for Laboratory orders; Radiology orders; Therapy orders and pharmacy orders. 																	
F-219	The system has the capability to address duplicate order checking.																	
F-220	The system has the capability to provide order status updates during the processing of an order.																	
F-221	The system has the capability to handle order communication within the integrated modules (Rad/Lab/Rx) along with communication to any potential interfaced modules.																	
F-222	"The system has the capability to have ?write rules? against order entry conditions by users across the unified database, including lab, Radiology, Angio, Respiratory, etc."																	
F-223	The system has the capability to have exam protocols. 																	
F-224	"The system has the capability to automatically notify caregivers if critical value is detected and document who acknowledged the receipt of notification, as well as the date/time."																	
F-225	"The system has the capability to create, fill-in & e-fax customized order forms. "																	
F-226	The system has the capability to accept orders from multiple locations. 																	
F-227	"The system has the capability to accept, override, and cancel an order."																	
F-228	The system has the capability to detect duplicate orders issuing visual and auditory warnings.																	
F-229	The system has the capability to download the treatment clock. 																	
F-230	The system has the capability for a user to create and manage care plans.																	
F-231	The system has the capability to override the warning after entering a justification for the override. 																	
F-232	The system has the capability to supplement standard order sets with additional information. 																	
F-233	The system has the capability to allow entry of multiple orders or requests for services in one order session without reentry of basic information.																	
F-234	The system has the capability to notify multiple departments with single order and required equipment support transmitted. 																	
F-235	The system has the capability to support the inclusion of Kardex-type of information. 																	
F-236	The system has the capability to modify care plan/interventions based on newly assigned caregiver or medical orders or new diagnosis.  																	
F-237	The system has the capability to document reason for verbal order.																	
F-238	The system has the capability to automatically notify providers of outstanding verbal orders needing signature. 																	
F-239	The system has the capability to flag all unsigned orders.																	
F-240	The system has the capability to periodically remind provider of unsigned orders.																	
F-241	The system has the capability for an automatic pre-notification to Ordering Clinicians that order will stop.																	
F-242	The system has the capability for an automatic escalation if notification is not acknowledged prior to stop time. 																	
F-243	The system has the capability to enter an order with more than one occurrence and to specify the number of occurrences and/or dates/times/intervals for the occurrences.																	
F-244	The system has the capability for integrated results with automatic notification and a single location to view all results. 																	
F-245	"The system has the capability to cause an ""alert"" in performing department for STAT orders and process immediately."																	
F-246	"The system has the capability for automatic escalation if ""Abnormal"" Alerts are not acknowledged."																	
F-247	The system has the capability to allow medications to be ordered by brand and generic names.																	
F-248	The system has the capability for conditional orders that are activated based satisfaction of their conditions.																	
F-249	"The system has the capability to capture orders using pre-define orders sets and ""sliding scale orders""."																	
F-250	"The system has the capability to generate relevant requisition numbers, registration numbers, etc. to enable closed-loop tracking with relevant source system."																	
F-251	The system has the capability to require that all orders be digitally signed and date/time stamped at the completion of each order.																	
F-252	"The system has the capability to assign and display an order number for active, hold, and pending orders."																	
F-253	"The system has the capability to require a justification for overriding, changing and canceling an order prior to be allowed to continue."																	
F-254	The system has the capability to enable selected orders to be recurring orders.																	
F-255	"The system has the capability to look up contact information for providers, departments, pharmacies, and other entities."																	
F-256	The system has the capability to automatically cancel active orders following discharge.																	
F-257	The system has the capability to automatically generate notification of cancellation to the appropriate department(s).																	
F-258	"The system has the capability to change order priority after order entry/verification, with prompt for reason."																	
F-259	The system has the capability to provide an on-line inquiry/display of all or selected patient orders. 																	
F-260	The system has the capability to support suspension of orders upon transfer with selective reactivation and countersignature by the receiving medical care provider.																	
F-261	The system has the capability to support countersignature of order written or discontinued by a medical student or unauthorized consultant for which activation is held pending the countersignature.																	
F-262	"The system has the capability to enter orders for preadmission and pre-registration patients, including ability to define the activation date for the order and to bill to the future encounter."																	
F-263	"The system has the capability to flag orders if not in compliance with medical necessity (as defined by entity, facility, or department)."																	
F-264	The system has the capability to customize pre-notification lead time.																	
F-265	The system has the capability to provide automatic notification of integrated results.																	
F-266	"The system has the capability to provide visual user alerts in the form of po-ups, color codes etc. at the point of data entry and when displaying information on the screen."																	
F-267	The system has the capability that in the event that an order has been made to an incorrect patient that they order could be moved to the correct patient.																	
F-268	The system has the capability to require medium and high severity alerts due to medication counter indications to be approved by the pharmacist.																	
F-269	The system has the capability to incorporate institution defined rules into order entry function.  																	
F-270	The system has the capability to support the special needs of order entry in the Emergency & Operating Room.  																	
F-271	The system has the ability to incorporate charging and workload methodology with order entry.																	
F-272	"The system has the ability to display critical relevant data when creating orders. (e.g., CT exam, BUN, Creatinine, liver enzymes)"																	
F-273	The system has the ability to enter multiple orders at the same time without the need to re-select PT from a list or re-enter PT ID information.																	
Clinical Decision Support Requirements																		
F-274	The system has the capability to create algorithm charts for common situations and procedures. 																	
F-275	The system has the capability to provide alerts and reminders based on predefined clinical guidelines																	
F-276	"The system has the capability to have decision support capabilities and alerts that identify the reason for the alert, relevant trigger data, severity/risk, and Integrated Decision Support."																	
F-277	"The system has the capability to queue notification of consultation needed to the consultant and to notify the user of consult completion, including consult note. "																	
F-278	The system has the capability to track and report number of consultations requested and number performed per physician.																	
F-279	The system has the capability to withhold an encounter from being closed without certain data fields completed.																	
F-280	The system has the capability to differentiate result notes from other types of visit notes.																	
F-281	The system has the capability to provide system-wide quality reporting and physician specific performance feedback.																	
F-282	The system has configurable protocols and alerts for each disease entity.																	
F-283	"The system has the capability to capture the data and the reports available to meet the National Patient Safety Goals.  Of specific concern are the patient Safety Goals that address infection control (e.g., central line infections, surgical site infections)."																	
F-284	The system has the ability to flag or identify patients that meet criteria for clinical studies.																	
F-285	"The system has the ability to integrate order sets, pathways or regulatory core measure criteria with prompts to provider for usual practices/expectations and method of documenting a deviation from usual or expected practice."																	
Pharmacy  Requirements																		
F-286	The system has the capability to view lab results during the pharmacy order process flow.																	
F-287	"The system has the capability to address verification of order by Pharmacist, as well as address duplicate Therapy checking; drug to drug interaction checking; drug to allergy checking; drug to food interaction checking."																	
F-288	The system has the capability to address soft and hard stop on orders defined by LAC/DHS policies and procedures.																	
F-289	"The system has the capability to address Chart Lock functionality for medication orderings. 	
  ? IV Admixture compatibility;
    o Scoping of Frequencies at the Nursing Unit
    o Contra-indication checking;
  ? Print outs of patient information in the form of Leaflets.
  ? Capability to enter free text medications.
  ? Capability to modify a medication order when the original order is modified 
     including new parameters applied and a new signature applied to the order.
    o TPN
    o Multi-ingredient IV ordering  Order Catalog as part of the eMAR
    o Virtual views
    o Rx Masks
    o Rx synonyms
    o Order Entry Formats
  ? Creation of on-line MAR and IV documentation
  ? Charge on order/administration
? Documentation of an on-line MAR
o IV Charting
o IV rate 
o Infuse Over Calculations
? Capability to view discharge Meds Profile as well as inpatient meds profile
o Sliding Scale ordering
o Weight Based dosing
o Rx order Sentences
o Medication orders
o Physician co-sign for medications
? Capability to handle medical student orders/new orders
"																	
F-290	The system has the capability to address pharmacy clinical documentation.																	
F-291	"The system has the capability to address:
  ? Pharmacy Reference Data including dispense Categories
  ? Dosage Forms
  ? Frequencies
  ? Label Comments
  ? Order Alerts
  ? Price Schedules
  ? Reason Codes
  ? Routes of Administration
  ? Units of Measure"																	
F-292	The system has the capability to address departmental Orders for Inpatient medications.																	
F-293	The system has the capability to support pre-defined defaults for order details.																	
F-294	The system has the capability to address formulary items.																	
F-295	The system has the capability to address pharmacy label formats.																	
F-296	The system has the capability to support Standard IV Label; Standard Medication Label; Standard Self Med/Pass Med Label; Standard Oral Syringe Label; Standard Outpatient Label.																	
F-297	The system has the capability to address medication administration processing.																	
F-298	"The system has the capability of providing the following reports:
  ? Standard Profile Pharmacy Medication
  ? Standard Stop Order Report
  ? Standard Worklist Report
  ? Standard Checklist Report
  ? Drug Inquiry
  ? Special Status Inquiry for non-formulary meds
  ? Order Action Workload by site and location
  ? Order Action Workload by site and user
  ? Dispense Categories Workload by site and user
  ? Dispense Categories Workload by site and location
  ? Pharmacy Billing Journal
  ? Drug Utilization Report
  ? Formulary Analysis
  ? Interaction Alert Views
  ? Order Action Analysis
  ? Order Dispense Analysis
  ? Product Dispense Analysis"																	
F-299	"The system has the capability to utilize pharmacy industry standardized databases that include:
  ? Basic drug information
  ? Drug-drug interactions
  ? Drug-food interactions
  ? Drug allergy/allergic cross-reactivity checks
  ? Therapeutic duplication
  ? Pharmacology Side effects/toxicities
  ? Warnings
  ? Pregnancy hazards
  ? Lactation hazards
  ? Therapeutic categorization
  ? Consumer drug education (English & Spanish)
  ? Warning labels  Brand/generic name
  ? Formulations
  ? Routes
  ? Orange book codes
  ? AWP Drug pricing
  ? Pediatric and adult order sentences content
  ? Dose-range checking content based on patient parameters such as age and 
    weight"																	
F-300	"The system has the capability to address Dose Range Checking including alerts presented to Pharmacy users during Order Entry to ensure medication order doses are within safe and effective ranges; Dose-range checking (age- and weight- specific); Checking performed on medication, PRN, and intermittent orders for single doses, daily doses, and length of therapy on order-by-order basis."																	
F-301	"The system has the capability to support decision support rules for pharmacy orders including:
  ? Validating have data in Height, Weight and Allergy fields
  ? Standard IV/PO switch that can recommend a switch from an expensive IV medication to a more cost effective oral equivalent
  ? Standard IV/PO WBC Switch that recommends a switch from an expensive IV  medication to a more cost effective oral equivalent when the White Blood Cells falls within normal ranges
  ? When ordering renally excreted, or nephrotoxic, medication for a patient with a recent creatinine result that indicates impaired renal function, a dosage  adjustment is recommended
  ? Alert evokes when renally excreted drug is ordered"																	
F-302	The system has the capability to address the need for an Electronic Medication Administration Record  (EMAR).																	
F-303	The system has the capability to provide a list and description of all fields in the drug record Formulary file. 																	
F-304	"The system has the capability to alert the user of any Drug - Drug interaction, Food - Drug interaction, Drug - Disease interaction, Drug - Allergy interaction."																	
F-305	The system has the capability that provides the user the ability to add and/or edit the interaction alerts. 																	
F-306	The system has the capability that provides the user the ability to delete the interaction alerts on a drug by drug basis.																	
F-307	The system has the capability to capture true allergies and reactions to allergies differently from drug intolerances as discrete data.																	
F-308	The system has the capability to have pre-notification occurrence prior to order stop time.     																	
F-309	"The system has the capability to have automatic notification of customized ""abnormal"" alerts."																	
F-310	"The system has the capability for to record, manage and report on patient allergies. "																	
F-311	The system has the capability for medication therapy monitoring. 																	
F-312	The system has the capability for order entry form on one screen including unit dose and IV. 																	
F-313	The system has the capability to have order verification for technician order entry.																	
F-314	The system has the capability to identify floor stock items for each patient care units (such as Pyxis items).																	
F-315	"The system has the capability to re-schedule, suspend, discontinue IV orders. "																	
F-316	The system has the capability to build tapering doses.   																	
F-317	"The system has the capability to ""lock down"" orders that are restricted to specific groups of physicians/services or alerts defined by user."																	
F-318	The system has the capability to automatically stop and/or hold order.    																	
F-319	"The system has the capability to generate cart exchange, fill list, IV picking, IV fill list.      "																	
F-320	The system has the capability to provide on-line drug information.    																	
F-321	The system has the capability to have a controlled substance tracking. 																	
F-322	The system has the capability to have drug utilization reporting. 																	
F-323	The system has the capability to add and/or edit medications. 																	
F-324	The system has the capability to add drips. 																	
F-325	The system has the capability to add and/or edit hemodynamic data elements. 																	
F-326	The system has the capability to view on demand the patient's current/active medications.																	
F-327	The system has the capability of dose and age range checking.																	
F-328	The system has the capability to generate patient medication profile for decentralized clinical pharmacist.																	
F-329	The system has the capability to implement user-defined drug restrictions. 																	
F-330	The system has the capability (at the user/administrative level) to add all new vaccine products and antigens to the system's immunization (tracking) data base.																	
F-331	The system has the capability to record the date and time (if known) of vaccine reaction or allergic occurrence and display an alert if the user orders a subsequent vaccine type.																	
F-332	The system has the capability to display an alert if the user orders a subsequent vaccine type recorded under the vaccine reaction or allergic occurrence. 																	
F-333	The system has the capability to present structured Allergy information to support the medication ordering process.																	
F-334	"The system has the capability to automatically alert and receive response back from the provider missing data required to compute a dose (e.g., dose type)."																	
F-335	"The system has the capability to automatically alert and receive response back from  the provider with invalid data required to compute a dose (e.g., dose type)."																	
F-336	The system has the capability to alert the user when a maximum individual or daily dose would be exceeded.																	
F-337	"The system has the capability to capture and display the approximate date/time of the allergy occurrence as well as capturing allergy symptoms (e.g., rash, fever, chills). "																	
F-338	The system has the capability to capture food/environmental allergies as discrete data.																	
F-339	The system has the capability to provide tool to facilitate reconciliation of patients' medications (past and present) across the continuum of care.																	
F-340	The system has the capability to allow automatic addition of medications based on orders and prescriptions.																	
F-341	The system has the capability to have reminders to clarify similar medications on the active list.																	
F-342	The system has the capability to view patient Immunization List. 																	
F-343	The system has the capability to display Med List by on-going vs. one-time medications.																	
F-344	The system has the capability to have the easy closed-loop medication refill process that allows nurse to get online approval from physicians.																	
F-345	The system has the capability for calculation of common medication dosages by weight. 																	
F-346	"The system has the capability for dose range checking against established ranges for weight, age and other conditions."																	
F-347	"The system has the capability for seamless integration with MAR, paper and on-line."																	
F-348	The system has the capability to alert the user of lookalike and sound alike drugs.																	
F-349	"The system has the capability for automatic volume calculations, flow rates and compounding information."																	
F-350	The system has the capability to interface with Bar Code medication administration system.																	
F-351	The system has the capability to interface with Automated Dispensing cabinet. 																	
F-352	"The system has the capability to generate 3D or 2D bar-coding labels, recodes, forms and MARs.  "																	
F-353	"The system has the capability for on-line pharmacy intervention, ADR and ADE documentation. "																	
F-354	"The system has the capability to reverse, modify, and resubmit prescription refill claims online. "																	
F-355	The system has the capability for the critical care solution to support IV drip conversions from within the flow sheet view. 																	
F-356	The system has the capability to graph titrated IV drips against blood pressure and heart rate.																	
F-357	"The system has the capability to document patient problems, medications, medication reconciliation, and allergies/ADRs in the EHR, which provides the ability to manage each of these list-types. "																	
F-358	"The system has the capability to review patient problems, medications, medication reconciliation, and allergies/ADRs in the EHR, which provides the ability to manage each of these list-types. "																	
F-359	"The system has the capability to update patient problems, medications, medication reconciliation, and allergies/ADRs in the EHR, which provides the ability to manage each of these list-types. "																	
F-360	The system has the capability to have ePrescribing capability to document and store physician and patient info and SIG.  																	
F-361	The system has the capability on its medication module to access the  National Drug Classification (NDC) database.																	
F-362	"The system has the capability for a use to document the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of a medication in the form of comments, notes or by using a qualitative or quantitative scale."																	
F-363	The system has the capability of storing repeat prescription information. 																	
F-364	The system has the capability for a user to retrieve prescription order information that has been previously entered in the system.  																	
F-365	"The system has the capability for medication management: Ordering, Acknowledging of order, pharmacy review filling of medication and the documentation of admission. "																	
F-366	The system has the capability for drug monographs.  																	
F-367	The system has the capability to support the IVR process through the Retail Pharmacy solution. 																	
F-368	The system has the capability to support written prescription image capture  through the Retail Pharmacy solution. 																	
F-369	The system has the capability to support interfaces to pharmacy automation through the Retail Pharmacy solution. 																	
F-370	The system has the capability to define printer routing for printing missing doses and MAR. 																	
F-371	The system has the capability to monitor adverse drug reaction. 																	
F-372	The system has the capability to batch refill.																	
F-373	The system has the capability to return to stock processing. 																	
F-374	The system has the capability to support all refills to be processed at a central location.																	
F-375	The system has the capability to import inpatient medication profile for medication reconciliation.																	
F-376	The system has the capability to review inpatient medication profile for medication reconciliation.																	
F-377	The system has the capability to support inventory control through the Retail Pharmacy.																	
F-378	The system has the capability to support electronic signature through the Retail Pharmacy.																	
F-379	The system has the ability to maintain an enterprise wide formulary and process to distribute the formulary across the enterprise.																	
F-380	The system has the ability to determine cost per administration of drug when the purchase of the drug is not in the same increment.																	
F-381	The system has the ability to receive patient medication information from an external source																	
F-382	The system has the capability to alert for needed liver enzymes when patient total dosage reaches certain level.																	
F-383	"The system has the capability to document for each item the date, time, person, references and next review date.  "																	
F-384	The system has the capability to have the ability to review scanned prescriptions.  																	
Medication Administration  Requirements																		
F-385	"The system has the capability to perform and manage Medication Reconciliation including medication prescription, ordering, administration, and reconciliation with the use of bar code-enabled medication dispense. "																	
F-386	The system has the capability to perform medication reconciliation by listing active and inactive prescriptions.																	
F-387	"The system has the ability to indicate order still pending/not completed when transfer or moved or not completed in specific time frame (e.g, antibiotic ordered, pending pharmacy delivery and patient moves from ED to ICU before delivered)"																	
Laboratory Requirements																		
F-388	The system has the capability to have technical modules that chart clinical and laboratory data.   																	
F-389	"The system has the ability to handle the results of profiled items (e.g. WBC,RBC,Hgb, Hct.), and recognize them as a grouped item but also an individual component."																	
F-390	The system has the capability to address the unique results of microorganisms and related antibiograms.																	
F-391	The system has the capability to handle reflexive testing.  An example of reflexive testing is when a confirmatory test is automatically ordered after a screening test is positive.																	
F-392	The system has the capability to handle/enable the user to result a WBC cell differential.																	
F-393	The system has the ability to archive patient's results and retrieve them  when they return to the facility. 																	
F-394	"The system has the ability to handle point of care testing and entry and display of results on the patient's MAR (e.g., sliding scale insulin)."																	
F-395	The system has the capability to handle planned orders (future orders)  including how to prevent redundant testing by different ordering clinics.																	
F-396	The system has the capability to generate specimen labels and customize the label.																	
F-397	The system has the capability to purge or archive lab orders.																	
F-398	The system has the a method for positive identification for patients prior to phlebotomy and point of care testing.																	
F-399	The system has the ability to document the specimen collection information.																	
F-400	The system has the ability to integrate specimen tracking for offsite clinics and health centers.																	
F-401	The system has the capability for the clinician to document review of results.																	
F-402	The system supports a process for handling critical lab values.																	
F-403	"The system has  capability of building manual and automated tests, reports, QA, setting up critical values, delta checks.  "																	
F-404	"The system has the ability to define delta checks, differential checks and others parameters to meet a specific defined population."																	
F-405	The system has the ability to have a bidirectional interface with instruments.																	
F-406	The system has the ability to create rules for specific tests and alert routing to the testing personnel of additional testing or confirmation of abnormal results.																	
F-407	The system has the ability to build reports that can be customized and queried.																	
F-408	"The system has the ability to export reports in ascidia comma delimited, txt or HL7."																	
F-409	The system has the ability to authorize non-lab personnel access to specified lab reports.																	
F-410	"The system has the ability to capture the user entry of Source, fixatives, # of tissues submitted."																	
F-411	The system has the ability to document date/time of collection.																	
F-412	"The system has the ability to generate specimen labels, multiple labels if needed.  Information includes patient demographics, type of specimen, date/time collected, order comments in a readable format (no codes)."																	
F-413	"The system has the capability to capture and barcode patient demographics, specimen #, collect date/time."																	
F-414	The system has the capability to capture specimens received using a barcode scanner.																	
F-415	The system has the ability to print cassette and slides with MRUN# and Spec#																	
F-416	"The system has the ability to add and document additional testing, i.e., histological special stains, immunohistochemical staining with markers."																	
F-417	The system has the ability to format reports.																	
F-418	"The system have the ability to allow/restrict non-Pathologist to view results based on order/specimen status (e.g., prelim, final)."																	
F-419	The system has the ability to document notification to clinician of abnormal results.																	
F-420	"The system has the ability to select or allow privileges based on position (e.g., Resident, Attending, Dept Head, etc.)."																	
F-421	The system has the ability to create an addendum to a report.																	
F-422	The system has the ability to electronically sign single and/or multiple signatures for a single report.																	
F-423	The system has the ability for Pathologist to view all reports pending signature for their own reports.																	
F-424	The system has ability for Pathologist to assign other Pathologists to sign in place of them.																	
F-425	"The system has the ability to create management and technical reports for QA/QI, workflow, etc."																	
F-426	"The system has capability to enable an user to pull resulted anatomical reports based on Attending, Resident or Diagnosis."																	
F-427	The system has the ability to track turnaround times for a defined group of physicians.																	
F-428	The system has the capability to Generate back-reports or view on any patient with a current AP order.																	
F-429	The system has the capability for a user to associate laboratory orders with a charge code.																	
F-430	The system has the ability to create accounts for Outside Consultation.																	
F-431	The system has the ability to store cellular images attached to the case and viewable to Clinicians.																	
F-432	"The system has the capability to have test results linked or cross-referenced to associated clinical reports for correlation studies (i.e., Anatomical Pathology reports and Cytotogy results)."																	
F-433	The system has the capability to utilize standard coding for anatomical pathology.																	
F-434	The system has the ability to integrate body part diagrams into Anatomical Pathology Reports.																	
F-435	"The system has the ability to report to external agencies (e.g., cancer registry)."																	
F-436	The system has a process of linking local organism codes to the SNOMED and LOINC codes.																	
F-437	The system has capability for read back and verify of critical labs.																	
F-438	"The system has the ability to order panels of labs (e.g., sepsis panel, trauma panel)."																	
Radiology Requirements																		
F-439	"The system has the capability to automate and manage processes for the radiology processes, including scheduling, radiology orders, film management, exam management, transcription and result processes."																	
F-440	The system has the capability to address Radiology Reference Data including the following modules:  CAT SCAN; Ultrasound; Nuclear Medicine; General Radiology; Mammography; Cardiology; MRI.																	
F-441	The system has the capability to support cancel notices; Transcription; delineation of ?reason for exam?; Patient packets to include: consent labels; flash cards; film folder labels; transport notice; requisition.																	
F-442	The system has the capability to support Online Technical Comments which include the ability for the technologist to document technical factors.																	
F-443	The system has the capability to support Medication Adverse Reaction Tracking including reactions to medications that may happen during radiology exam or contract media and can be documented as well through the common allergy application.																	
F-444	The system has the capability to support medications documented in Radiology Management display on the MAR or be available for interaction checking.																	
F-445	"The system has the capability to provide the following reports:
  ? Actual TAT Log
  ? Detail Level Activity Report
  ? Exam Activity Report
  ? Order Activity Report
  ? Medication Documentation
  ? Repeat Analysis Report
  ? Transcriptionist Activity Report"																	
F-446	The system has the capability to support Folder/Film Management Tracking to simplify tracking films as they are being checked in and out of the radiology service.																	
F-447	The system has the capability of tracking release of digital image files to patients or provided to an outside facility.																	
F-448	"The system has inquiry functions for detecting missing folders and delinquent loans, in addition to tracking films that are sent to the radiology service from outside sources (foreign films)."																	
F-449	The system has the capabilities for documenting Radiologists' interpretations of images either through dication or in writing.																	
F-450	"The system has the capability to support role-specific applications for radiologists and other interpreting physicians to access exam, report, and other clinical information, create reports using templates and to electronically sign reports within Radiology."																	
F-451	The system has the capability to support mammography management as an integrated product option that provides the ability to track and manage mammography procedures to ensure patient follow up and provide statistical outcome reporting. 																	
F-452	"The system has the ability to support the tracking of the following:
  1) Tracking of Mammography Screening and Diagnostic exams with 
      attachment of ACR BI-RADS coding; please include how the system
      meets the MWSA (Mammography Quality Standards Act)
  2) Patient Letters for Mammography exams
  3) Patient Notifications; Patient Reminders
  4) Patient Warnings; Physician Survey
  5) Physician Reminder; Physician Warning"																	
F-453	"The system has the ability to generate the following reports:
  1) Patient History Form with Breast Diagram
  2) Standard Management Reports
  3) Summary Report by Radiologist
  4) Outcome Summary Report
  5) Assessment and Recommendation by Patient Age Group
  6) Follow-Up Report
  7) Assignment of Statistical Category based on Pathology Information
  8) Reports by Radiology sub-section"																	
F-454	The system has the ability to support Radiology departmental scheduling as an Integrated option providing the ability to schedule appointments for procedures performed for the Radiology Service.																	
F-455	"The system has the ability to support Scheduling of Appointment types as either specific Appointment Types equivalent to orders, or Generic Appointment Types."																	
F-456	"The system has the capability to limit scheduling to View Only, Add and Modify, and/or Database Maintenance."																	
F-457	The system has the capability to restrict scheduling based upon location of the patient or provider.																	
F-458	The system has the capability to view PACS images with the Rad report.  System will handle orders with multiple image types if the PACS system can only process each image separately.																	
F-459	The system has the capability to display Radiologist work at sign on. 																	
F-460	The system has the capability to choose their workflow/tasks.																	
F-461	The system has the capability for user-defined worklist.  																	
F-462	"The system has the capability to have messaging capability akin to ""post-it notes"". "																	
F-463	"The system has the capability for standardization of ""Normals"" across all procedures including Mammography."																	
F-464	"The system has the capability for managing, tracking and archiving films. "																	
F-465	The system has the capability to support Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System Atlas (BIRADS). 																	
F-466	The system has the capability to support BIRADS categories 0-6. 																	
F-467	The system has the capability to reconcile radiology exam (RIS) and image information (PACS) mismatches.  																	
F-468	The system has the capability to be DICOM compliant for images.  																	
F-469	"The system has the capability for alerting the Radiology Technician of drug allergies, e.g., contrast media allergies."																	
F-470	The system has the ability to maintain Radiation exposure per patient records and alerts to users when ordering additional tests when exposure levels are exceeded.																	
F-471	"The system has a process for identifying various stages of radiology reads including the ED preliminary read, radiology preliminary read, and final read including methods of addressing discrepancy in any of these reads."																	
F-472	The system has the ability to indicate patients in the queue and triage /prioritization method.																	
Operating Room Requirements																		
F-473	"The system has the capability to address:
  1) Surgical Procedures
  2) Surgical Personnel
  3) Surgical Inventory
  4) Items and Equipment
  5) Preference Cards
  6) Pick Lists
  7) Preference Card Comments
  8) Surgical Charging
  9) Bill Item/Price and Bill Code Association
  10) Anesthesiology required documentation"																	
F-474	"The system has the capability to support case logging including:
  1) Documentation of standard case information
  2) Scheduled case information defaults into documentation
  3) Case Times
  4) Case Attendees
  5) Surgical Procedures
  6) Delays
  7) Counts
  8) Prosthetic Devices
  9) Additional user defined forms and fields
  10) Preference Cards including Generic procedure-based preference cards
  11) Surgeon-specific preference cards
  12) Comprehensive preference cards including Pick Lists
  13) Documentation segments and default values"																	
F-475	"The system has capability to support:
  1) Search Preference Card database based on any of the following criteria
  2) Procedure
  3) Surgeon
  4) Specialty
  5) Date created, modified, last used in case
  6) Personnel - created by, modified by "																	
F-476	The system has the ability to copy multiple preference cards simultaneously using Copy Wizard functionality.  This should include the capability to upload existing Preference Card pick lists and comments.																	
F-477	The system has the ability to support Case Cart/Pick List Management that allows Pick lists automatically generated for scheduled case(s)/procedure(s) via batch operations.																	
F-478	"The system has the ability to provide reports for the following criteria:
  1) Scheduled case analysis
  2) Scheduled procedure analysis
  3) Cancelled case analysis
  4) Completed case analysis
  5) Procedure volume analysis
  6) Procedure Coding Analysis
  7) Implant log analysis
  8) Delay reason analysis
  9) Case cost analysis
  10) Summary case cost analysis
  11) Attendee case analysis
  12) Attendee procedure analysis
  13) Ability to save search criteria and report format through creation of
        ""saved views""
  14) Ability to create ad-hoc reports
  15) Ability to share reports (""saved views"") across users
  16) Stoplight rules for highlighting exceptions
  17) Export report data to Microsoft Excel"																	
F-479	"The system has the ability to support the use of standard utilization reports including:
  1) Block Utilization
  2) Surgeon Utilization
  3) Specialty Utilization
  4) Cases with no preference card report
  5) Cases with no surgeon-specific preference card report
  6) Critical item report
  7) Non-stock item report
  8) Cases with no charges report"																	
F-480	The system has the ability to support Intraoperative Nursing Documentation including Forms-based nursing documentation of postoperative case information.																	
F-481	The system has the ability to support Intraoperative Nursing Documentation including scheduled case information defaults into nursing documentation and allow for documentation by exception.																	
F-482	The system has the ability to support Intraoperative Nursing Documentation including pre-defined values default from preference cards and allow for documentation by exception.																	
F-483	The system has the ability to support Intraoperative Nursing Documentation including case pick list usage documentation by exception.																	
F-484	"The system has the ability to support Scheduling Appointment Book including:
  1) Centralized or decentralized scheduling
  2) Block scheduling utilizing flex rule and block expiration logic
  3) Appointment shuffling
  4) System-calculated total case duration for multiple procedure cases
  5) Procedure durations based on surgeon/procedure recent or historical 
      averages
  6) Automatic printing of appointment notifications
  7) Public and private scheduling comments
  8) Scheduling action comments
  9) Protocol Scheduling: up to x protocols per facility
  10) Personnel conflict checking of up to x personnel resources
  11) Equipment / instrumentation conflict checking across multiple surgical
        areas (from preference card pick list)
  12) Surgeon Privilege Checking
  13) Scheduling Guidelines (pop-up dialog windows)
  14) Total number of Blocks
  15) Total number of Appointment Types"																	
F-485	"The system has the ability to support preoperative nursing documentation including:
  1) Pre-Admission Testing 
  2) Forms-based nursing documentation of preoperative case information
  3) Scheduled case information defaults into nursing documentation and allow
     for documentation by exception
  4) Pre-defined values default from preference cards and allow for 
      documentation by exception
  5) Case pick list usage documentation by exception"																	
F-486	"The system has the ability to support postoperative nursing documentation including:
  1) Forms-based nursing documentation of postoperative case information
  2) Scheduled case information defaults into nursing documentation and 
      allow for documentation by exception
  3) Pre-defined values default from preference cards and allow for 
      documentation by exception
  4) Case pick list usage documentation by exception"																	
F-487	The system has the ability to support bedside medical device interfaces which includes each identified bed being interfaced to a bedside data storage device.																	
F-488	"The system has the ability to support physician InBox functionality including:
  1) Notification
  2) Signing transcription
  3) Forwarding results
  4) Cosigning orders"																	
F-489	The system has the ability to support the notification of forwarded items including items that can be proxied individually to selected user(s). Group proxy functionality is also available for Forwarded Items.  																	
F-490	The system has the ability to support Result Notifications to the ordering provider. Areas will include results to endorse within the inbox and notifications of orders that have been placed by non-providers/physicians and that need to be cosigned or approved.  																	
F-491	The system has the capability for scheduling all operative rooms and resources.																	
F-492	The system has the capability to integrate with hemodynamic monitors.																	
F-493	The system has the capability to view prenatal record.   																	
F-494	The system has the capability to have intrapartum and postpartum to interface.  																	
F-495	The system has the capability to support all aspects of pre-operative care that is integrated with the electronic patient chart. 																	
F-496	The system has the capability for multi-booking recurring patients. 																	
F-497	"The system has the ability to interface data from an external Anesthesiology system (e.g., includes Anesthesia start/stop times, ASA scores."																	
F-498	"The system has the ability to provide user security for surgeons, Anesthesiologist, CRNA, etc. to authorize and/or restrict those awaiting approvals from Med Admin or other credentialing agencies. This should include the ability to gather reports based on sub-divisions of surgery."																	
F-499	The system has the ability to document surgery information that has 2 or more surgeries being performed simultaneously on the same patient.																	
F-500	The system has the ability to export OR data to a file for upload to an external site (assumes you are given the receiving systems format).																	
Intensive Care Unit Requirements																		
F-501	The system has the ability to trend vital signs with administration of vasoactive agents.																	
F-502	The system has the ability to bypass admitting screens to enter emergency treatment upon arrival.																	
F-503	The system has the ability to link/auto-populate  Point of care Testing (POCT) to various relevant sections of the E.H.R.																	
F-504	The system has the ability for the ICU component to acquire data from physiologic monitors.																	
F-505	The system has the ability for the ICU component to acquire data from bedside monitors.																	
F-506	The system has the ability to perform standard physiologic calculations.																	
F-507	The system has the ability to calculate acuity scores.																	
F-508	The system has the ability for the ICU component to integrate and present fluid balance.																	
F-509	The system has the ability to generate user alerts if procedures do not comply with standard protocol.																	
F-510	The system has the ability to present laboratory data from a variety of sources.																	
F-511	The system has the ability to support graphing and trending of patient information such as vital signs.																	
F-512	The system has the capability to interface with beside point of care equipment.																	
F-513	The system has the capability to interface bedside patient identification technology																	
F-514	The system has the capability to generate labels for laboratory specimens.																	
Rehabilitation Requirements																		
F-515	The system has the capability to provide all necessary documentation for Rehabilitative Medicine for a large Rehab facility including the calculation and process to determine FIM?s score.																	
F-516	"The system has the ability to document rehab services evaluations and obtain approvals for treatment, including support for the underlying routing process."																	
Enterprise Master Patient Index (EMPI) Requirements																		
F-517	The system has the ability to support EMPI maintenance of the integrity of a single person record by co-coordinating and reconciling incoming demographic data created in any proposed vendor system.																	
F-518	"The system has the capability to provide unique identification of persons across an enterprise, regardless of the number and type of registration systems publishing to the EMPI. "																	
F-519	The system has the ability to support advanced search algorithms providing the ability to perform inexact matching of the data provided from the proposed vendor?s system common person search through all applications and modules. 																	
F-520	"The system has the capability to perform inexact matching of the data for a common person search, passively through the inbound ADT interface match and reconcile processes."																	
F-521	"The system has the capability to include person combine tools to allow users to quickly, accurately, and efficiently define and merge person records."																	
F-522	"The system has the ability to support Content Code Sets including Admission Sources, Admit Mode, Admission Types, Race Codes, Accident Codes, Discharge Dispositions, Hospital Services, Language, Marital Status, Religion, Provider Specialty."																	
F-523	The system has the ability to support registration flows for: Add/Modify/View Person; Modify/View Encounter;  View Person; View Encounter.																	
F-524	"The system has the capability to support Search Criteria Including: MRN, Last Name, first, SSN, DOB, Medicaid number, Medicare number, and CIN."																	
F-525	The system has the capability to support Probabilistic Match Weights to determine duplicate potential duplicate records during registration and Medical records merging.																	
F-526	"The system has the capability to support EMPI reporting for the following:
  1) EMPI Person Combine Report
  2) EMPI Person Combine or Duplicate Report
  3) EMPI Person Combine Overlap Report
  4) EMPI Possible Person Matches
  5) EMPI Possible Person Matches-Duplicate Report
  6) EMPI ESI Overlay Report; EMPI PM Overlay Report"																	
F-527	The system has the capability to support integrated Medical Necessity Checking using (Advance Beneficiary Notification).																	
F-528	The system has the capability to support an integrated Enterprise Eligibility Management verification process that provides the ability to perform a single eligibility verification status inquiry for a patient/subscriber/dependent that verifies if insurance will cover the medical service to be rendered prior to performance to ensure reimbursement to respective providers.																	
F-529	"The system has the ability to capture, retain, update the assignment of a Medical Home for each patient. (must have the ability to receive data from external sources like CHP, HWLA, etc and should have the ability to track changes with audits). The system also needs to integrate into clinical systems (ED, Scheduling, etc.)."																	
F-530	"The system has the functionality to assist users in the prevention of generating duplicate patient records for example through matching algorithms for names, address information and other demographic indicators."																	
F-531	The system has the ability to connect similar such as Gonzalez and Gonzales as possible matches.																	
F-532	The system has an unmerge process.																	
Health Information Management (HIM) Requirements																		
F-533	The system has an integrated HIM set of functionality committed to the elimination of redundant data entry and the minimization of manual activities.																	
F-534	"The system has the ability to support Patient Data Management,  Patient Care Chart Requests/Deliver, Documentation Completion, Coding/Abstracting Management, Release of Information Management, and Chart Location Tracking."																	
F-535	"The system has the ability to support deficiency modules, inter-hospital chart requests, suspension process, and release of information."																	
F-536	The system has the ability to support Encoding Management/HIM Chart Coding through third party modules like 3M and/or Quantim.																	
F-537	The system has the ability to support Barcode Labels for chart tracking.																	
F-538	"The system has the ability to support integrated medical transcription management modules that include:
  1) Medical transcription
  2) Remote transcription
  3) Document types that delineate care levels
  4) Multiple signature lines
  5) Medical dictionaries
  6) Document tracking
  7) Deficiency tracking"																	
F-539	"The system has the capability to support the merging and un-merging of identified duplicate medical records.  The EHR System will need to be able to track the changes as well as accommodate moving visit information (e.g., an account) from one medical record to another with associated audit trails."																	
F-540	"The system has the ability to electronically receive from an external source scheduled reports (e.g., lab) and assign them to the appropriate patient records/accounts."																	
F-541	The system has the ability to electronically route a custom report from your system's document imaging system.																	
F-542	"The system has the ability to write custom reports for forms query (e.g., list all the CLIP forms for patients seen in the last month)."																	
F-543	The system has the capability to integrate scanned documents or scanning documents.																	
F-544	The system has the capability to code Assisted Software Program for outpatient.																	
F-545	The system has the capability to prevent duplication.																	
F-546	The system has the capability to support Computer Assisted Coding.																	
F-547	"The system has the capability to support/manage work queue for routing records for review, etc."																	
F-548	The system has the capability to view the complete final record.																	
F-549	The system has the capability to route reports to designated supervisors and medical records.																	
F-550	The system has the capability to generate electronic reports on delinquency status.																	
F-551	"The system has the following document imaging capabilities:
  1. Forms tracking and assignment to folders
  2. Specialized process for routing for deficiency tracking
  3. Review an assignment
  4. Routing for analysis
  5. Annotations
  6. Routing to MD?s for signature
  7. Bar coded forms assignment"																	
Emergency Department Requirements																		
F-552	"The Emergency Triage and Tracking application has the capability to automate and manage the processes for the emergency department to enable efficient, comprehensive providing care in a timely fashion."																	
F-553	"The system has the capability to support Multiple views that display all of the beds in the department and one for each area within the department such as Pediatrics, Chest Pain, Fast Track."																	
F-554	The system has the capability to track patient statuses for patients with an encounter type of emergency or fast track and display other data about the patient.																	
F-555	"The system has the capability to be configured to meet the needs of various disciplines in the ED such as Physician, Nurse, etc ."																	
F-556	"The system has the ability to track lists, including, but not limited to: 
  1) EMS List
  2) Nurse List
  3) Physician List
  4) Triage List that includes all patients requiring Triage assessment
  5) Registration List
  6) Checkout List including all patients with zero tracking code and placed in 
      checkout location
  7) Provider List
  8) Bed Tracking List
"																	
F-557	"The system has the capability to support Tracking Events including:
  1) Arrival
  2) Bed Assignment
  3) RN Exam
  4) Dr. Exam
  5) Triage
  6) Registration
  7) Discharge
  8) Lab
  9) X-ray
  10) EKG which include overdue and critical alerts for each event"																	
F-558	The system has the capability to support acuity levels such as I-Resuscitation; II-Emergent; III-Urgent; IV-Less Urgent; V-Non-urgent.																	
F-559	"The system has the capability to support Specialty selections including:
  1) Cardiology
  2) Orthopedics
  3) Pulmonary
  4) Ophthalmology
  5) Pediatrics
  6) ENT
  7) Dental
  8) Major Trauma
  9) Minor Trauma
  10) Full Code
  11) Neurology
  12) Psychiatry
  13) Internal Medicine
  14) Musculoskeletal
  15) Gastrointestinal"																	
F-560	"The system has the capability to support Provider Check-in/Check-out through role assignment such as team assignment, and patient reassignment functionality."																	
F-561	"The system has the capability to support Provider Roles such as:
  1) ED Physician
  2) ED Nurse
  3) ED Nurse Management
  4) Nurse Supervisor
  5) ED Tech
  6) ED Unit Secretary
  7) ED Registration
  8) ED Admin Secretary
  9) Radiology Transport
  10) DBA"																	
F-562	The system has the capability to support Team Assignments.																	
F-563	"The system has the capability to support ED documentation forms such as:
  1) ED Triage Adult
  2) ED Triage Pediatrics
  3) ED Assessment Adult
  4) ED Assessment Pediatrics
  5) ED Education and Teaching
  6) ED Treatments and Procedures
  7) ED Valuables/Belongings
  8) ED Vital Signs
"																	
F-564	"The system has the capability to support Reports such as:
  1) Average LOS Report
  2) Disposition Log
  3) Chart Log
  4) Activity Log
  5) Patients Events Time Report
  6) Patient Returns Log
  7) Admits per Shift Report
  8) LOS per Shift Report
  9) Patient Acuity Report
  10) Patients for Selected Care Providers Report
  11) Primary Care and Referring Physician Log"																	
F-565	The system has the capability to ED patient education materials including Discharge Instructions in multiple languages and the capability to save patient education selections to the Electronic Health Record.																	
F-566	The system has the ability to comply with regulatory requirements specific to the ED such as EMTALA.																	
F-567	The system has the ability to support pre-registration or an patient en-route.																	
F-568	The system has the ability to postpone or bypass mandatory/sequential entries in order to treat and document based on patient condition.																	
F-569	The system has the capability of visual cues to notify the provider of established goals or guidelines times exceeded.																	
F-570	The system has the capability for inter-facility (county and non-county) and intra ?enterprise transfers (between county facilities)  documentation flows between connected facilities.																	
F-571	The system has the ability to support non-bed/hallway areas for patient care areas.																	
F-572	"The system has the ability to notify provider of need for call back, and a process of documenting."																	
F-573	The system has the ability to document trauma/resuscitation and support of a trauma reg.																	
F-574	The system has the ability to support disaster/mass casualties and disaster triage.																	
Cardiology Department Requirements																		
F-575	"The system has the capability to support Cardiology, including:
? Problem Lists
? Procedure Lists
? Order Entry
? Charting
? Cardiovascular PACS Integration"																	
F-576	"The system supports grouping like problems into disease categories (e.g., cerebrovascular disease, congenital heart disease, heart failure, hypertensive heart disease, ischemic heart disease, etc.) and enable one-click search when adding a problem to the list."																	
F-577	"The system supports the ability to define service groups and associate a patient with multiple groups (e.g., adult congenital, general cardiology, heart failure, interventional clinic, or practice A, B, and C)."																	
F-578	The system supports the ability to define clinical trials and assign a patient to one or more clinical trials; this must integrate with patient alerts.																	
Managed Care Requirements																		
F-579	The EHR System has the ability to have a managed care solution as an integrated part of the proposed EHR System or whether a separate solution will be required to which the EHR will interface.																	
F-580	"The system has the ability to provide the following Managed Care functionality:
  1. Plan contracts/benefits management
  2. Membership, enrollment, and eligibility
  3. Provider network administration
  4. Provider credentialing
  5. Contracting and reimbursement
  6. Encounters, claims, and adjudication
  7. Capitation
  8. Correspondence processing
  9. Premium billing
  10. Reporting
  11. General ledger
  12. Claims payable
  13. Coordination of benefits
  14. Authorizations, denials, modifications, and pending referrals"																	
F-581	"The system has the ability to provide managed care medical administration for:
  1. Utilization management
  2. Case management
  3. Disease management"																	
Anesthesiology  Requirements																		
F-582	The EHR System has the capability to have an anesthesia solution as an integrated part of the proposed EHR System or whether a separate solution will be required to which the EHR will interface.																	
F-583	"The system has the capability to allow for a review of the medical history, including anesthesia, drug and allergy history."																	
F-584	The system has the capability to allow for documenting interview and examination of the patient related to anesthesiology. 																	
F-585	"The system has the capability to allow for notation of anesthesia risk according to established standards of practice (e.g,. ASA classification of risk)."																	
F-586	"The system has the capability to allow for identification of potential anesthesia problems, particularly those that may suggest potential complications or contraindications to the planned procedure."																	
F-587	"The system has the capability to allow for a development of the plan for the patient?s anesthesia care, including the type of medications for induction, maintenance and post-operative care and discussion with the patient of the risks and benefits of the delivery of anesthesia."																	
F-588	The system has the capability to allow for a review a sample of inpatient and outpatient medical records for patients who had surgery or a procedure requiring administration of anesthesia.																	
F-589	"The system has the capability to provide an intraoperative anesthesia record for each patient who receives general, regional or monitored anesthesia. Information to track, at a minimum, includes:
  ? Name and hospital identification number of the patient; 
  ? Name(s) of practitioner who administered anesthesia, and as applicable, the 
     name and profession of the supervising anesthesiologist or operating 
     practitioner; 
  ? Name, dosage, route and time of administration of drugs and anesthesia 
     agents; Techniques(s) used and patient position(s), including the
     insertion/use of any intravascular or airway devices; 
  ? Name and amounts of IV fluids, including blood or blood products if 
     applicable; 
  ? Timed-based documentation of vital signs as well as oxygenation and 
     ventilation parameters;  
  ? Any complications, adverse reactions, or problems occurring during 
    anesthesia, including time and description of symptoms, vital signs,
    treatments rendered, and patient?s response to treatment."																	
F-590	The system has the capability to allow for a post-anesthesia evaluation be completed and documented no later than 48 hours after surgery or a procedure requiring anesthesia services.	