
Journal of Universal Computer Science
Special Issue on
„Requirements Engineering:
The Light Control Case Study“
Problem Description
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 2
Introductory Note
This document gives an informal description of the problem „light control system“, that is the
subject of the proposed case study. It is based on a previous version reported in [1] that hasbeen used in the Sonderforschungsbereich 501 „Development of Large Systems with GenericMethods“, a large project at the Computer Science Department of the University of Kaiserslau-tern. The previous version was also used in a Dagstuhl Seminar on „Requirements Capture,Documentation, and Validation“ that took place in June 1999.
Based on input received from Daniel Berry, Vincenzo Gervasi, Martin Kronenburg, Julio Leite,
Christian Peper, and Vinicius da Silva Almendra, the previous version has been repeatedlyrevised in agreement with Rolf Merz and Jürgen Schäfer from the Electrical EngineeringDepartment of the University of Kaiserslautern, who are acting as customers in the projectmentioned above. Thus, the basic intention of providing a customer document as the basis forthe case study has been preserved. However, we expect that the revisions made should reducethe need for customer feedback during the case study substantially, and lead to solutions thatare better comparable.
The problem description „Light Control“ is divided into 4 parts. Part 1 is a brief introduction.
Part 2 describes the architecture of the 4th ﬂoor of a university building in Kaiserslautern,which is the subject of the informal needs given in Part 3. Finally, Part 4 lists and explains tech-nical terms that are used in the document.
[1] R. L. Feldmann, J. Münch, S. Queins, S. Vorwieger, G. Zimmermann: Baselining a
Domain-Speciﬁc Software Development Process , Technical Report SFB501 TR-02/99,
University of Kaiserslautern, 1999
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 3
Problem Description “Light Control”
Part 1: Introduction
1The main motivation for the development of a new light control system are the disadvan-
tages of the currently existing system. Since all lights are controlled manually, electricalenergy is wasted by lighting rooms which are not occupied and by little possibilities to adjustlight sources relative to need and daylight.
2In the following document, keywords  are marked at their ﬁrst occurrence and listed in the
additional dictionary (Part 4).
3Words written in emphasis are names of physical sensors/actuators.
4Paragraphs are numbered for easier reference.
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 4
Part 2:Floor Description
5In this part, the architecture  and theinstallation  of the given sensors andactuators of
Building 32, 4th ﬂoor is described.
6The fourth ﬂoor of Building 32 consists of three sections and shares two  staircase s,
staircase east (SCE) and staircase west (SCW), with other ﬂoors of the building, as shown inFigure 1.Each section is divided into some hallway section s (H) and rooms, each of which
may be an ofﬁce (O), acomputer lab  (CL), ahardware lab  (HL), aperipheral room  (P), orO435
O433
O431
O429
M427
O425CL426
O424
CL422
P420
CL418
O416O423
O421
O419
O417
O415
P413O414
O412
HL410 HL411ols2
ols3ols1
ols4
ols6ols5H3H2H1
Figure 1: Architecture of the 4th Floor of Building 32SCWSE
section1
section2
section3SCE
Wd1
d2
d3
d4
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 5
a meeting room  (M). All rooms in a section are accessible via a connected hallway section.
There are three hallway sections and 22 rooms to control. Figure 1 shows also the six outdoor
light sensor s (ols1 - ols6 ) and the major compass directions. The sensors cover the six direc-
tions of the different walls. The label in a room indicates the type of the room and gives aunique number, see Figure 1.
2.1 Ofﬁce Description
7Each ofﬁce (shown in Figure 2) has one door (d1) to the hallway section and can have up
to two doors (d2, d3) leading to its adjacent rooms. Each door is equipped with a door closed
contact, nameddcc<n>, where n is the number of the door in the room.
8Each ofﬁce is equipped with
1.onemotion detector (imd), so that the room is fully covered.
2.twoceiling light group s (window and wall). The luminaries in a ceiling light
group in any room are turned on or off only as a group.Each ceiling light group is controlled by one push button  on the wall ( pb1 and
pb2, respectively), which toggles the ceiling light group if pushed.
A ceiling light group in a room shows the following behavior if the correspondingpush button is pushed:(i) if the ceiling light group is completely on, it will be switched off(ii) otherwise it will be switched on completely.
3.Each ceiling light group can be dimmed with its own dimmer-actuator.
4.twostatus line s (sll1 and sll2 ) each of which shows the status of one ceiling light
group.
2.2 Computer Lab Description
9Same as ofﬁce.
2.3 Hardware Lab Description
10Same as ofﬁce, but with more than one door leading to the hallway section.
2.4 Meeting Room Description
11Same as ofﬁce.
2.5 Peripheral Room Description
12The peripheral rooms will not be controlled by the control system , and thus they are not
described here!
2.6 Hallway Section Description
13Each hallway section is limited by two doors, each of which is leading to an adjacent
hallway section or to an adjacent staircase. The associated names of the doors (d1, d2, d3, d4)are shown in Figure 1. Each door is equipped with a door closed contact, named dcc<n>,
wheren is derived from the label of the door.
14Each hallway section is equipped with
1.two motion detectors ( imd1 andimd2), placed above the doors at each end of the
hallway section to determine the presence of a person near a door,
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 6
2.one motion detector to cover the whole section ( imd3),
3.onehallway section ceiling light group. The luminaries in a hallway section ceil-
ing light group are turned on or off only as a group.Each ceiling light group is controlled by several push buttons ( pb<i>) each of
which toggles the ceiling light group if pushed.A hallway section ceiling light group shows the following behavior if a push buttonis pushed:(i) if the hallway section ceiling light group is on, then it will be switched off(ii) otherwise it will be switched on
4.one status line ( sll1) that shows the status of the hallway section ceiling light
group.
2.7 Staircase Description
15Each staircase connects several ﬂoors.
16At the landing of each staircase at each ﬂoor, the staircase is equipped with
1.one motion detector ( imd1) above the door of the landing that leads to the adjacent
hallway section to detect motion in the staircase near the door.
ofﬁce adjacent
ofﬁceadjacent
ofﬁce
imdd1d2 d3
Hallway
ceiling light group
Figure 2:  Ofﬁce Architecture
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 7
2.8 Sensor Description
17Analog sensor s typically have an exponential response time. Conversion time is the
time to convert the analog value to a digital one that can be accessed by the control system.Reaction time is the time from a change of the sensed property to the time when the sensor hasreached 90% of the change, excluding conversion time.
2.9 Actuator Description
18Actuators have a linear response time. Reaction time is therefore deﬁned as the time to
change from 0 to 100% respectively 100 to 0%, if different.Table 1: Sensors
TypeReso-
lutionRangeReaction
Time Conver-
sion TimeDescription
door closed
contact0, 1 10 msIt is placed above the door and is 1 if
the door is fully closed, 0 otherwise
motion
detector0, 1 1 sIf set to 1, a person is moving, even
very slowly, in the range of thedetector.
status line 0, 1 10 msSenses if the light voltage is turned
on (1) or off (0).
outdoor
light sensor1 lux1-10000
lux10 ms 1 sMounted perpendicular to facade,
measures the illumination  of the
facade for the calculation of lightﬂow through a window.
Table 2: Actuators
Type Range ControlReaction
TimeDescription
control system
active0, 1 10 msIf the control system sends a 1 within every
60 s, the control system is still alive.
dimmer 0-100% 10 msControls light between 0 (off) and 10-
100% (on).
pulse 0, 1 10 msIf the value changes from 0 to 1, the light
changes from on to off or from off to on.
push button 0, 1 10 ms 1 as long as pushed
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 8
2.10 Dimmable Light
19The structure of a dimmable light  is shown in Figure 3. Inputs to a dimmable light are
created by a pulseto toggle the light, by a dimmer to set the current dim value, and by control
system active  to show the status of the control system. If this signal is not sent every 60 s, the
dimmable light switches to fail safe mode, i.e. dim value is assumed to be 100%. Outputs of adimmable light are generated by a status line to show the current state (on or off) of the light.
Figure 3: Dimmable Lightpush
button
controlsystempulse
status linephase
control system active
dimmabledimmer
light
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 9
Part 3: Informal Needs
20This part contains the needs for a new light control system for the fourth ﬂoor of Building
32 of the University of Kaiserslautern.
21In Section 3.1, functional needs are listed and in Section 3.2 non-functional needs are listed.
3.1 Functional Needs
22The functional needs are split into two groups, user needs and facility manager  needs,
depending on the person who has expressed them.
3.1.1 User Needs
23The user needs are labelled by U<number>.
24At ﬁrst, general user needs are listed, which are demanded for each kind of room:
U1 If a person occupies a room, there has to be safe illumination , if nothing else is
desired by the chosen light scene .
U2 As long as the room is occupied, the chosen light scene has to be maintained.U3 If the room is reoccupied within T1 minutes after the last person has left the room,
the chosen light scene has to be reestablished.
U4 If the room is reoccupied after more than T1 minutes since the last person has left
the room, the default light scene  has to be established.
U5 For each room, the chosen light scene can be set by using the room control panel .
U6 For each room, the default light scene can be set by using the room control panel.U7 For each room, the value T1 can be set by using the room control panel.U8 If any outdoor light sensor or the motion detector of a room does not work correctly,
the user of this room has to be informed.
U9 The room control panel for an ofﬁce should contain at least:
(i) a possibility to set each ceiling light group(ii) a possibility to set the chosen and the default light scene(iii) a possibility to set T1
25The user needs concerning the ofﬁces are:
U10 The ceiling light groups should be maintained by the control system depending on
thecurrent light scene .
U11 A room control panel in an ofﬁce should be movable as is a telephone.
26The user needs for the remaining rooms are:
U12 In all other rooms, the room control panel should be installed near a door leading to
the hallway section.
27The user needs for the hallway sections are:
U13 When a hallway section is occupied by a person, there has to be safe illumination.
U14 Before a person enters one hallway section from another one or from a staircase, the
hallway section ceiling light group in the section being entered has to be on.
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 10
3.1.2 Facility Manager Needs
28The facility manager needs are labelled by FM<number> .
FM1 Use daylight to achieve the desired light setting  of each room and each hallway
section whenever possible.
FM2 The ceiling light group in each hallway section has to be off when the hallway sec-
tion has been unoccupied for at least T2 minutes.
FM3 The ceiling light groups in a room have to be off when the room is unoccupied for at
least T3 minutes.
FM4 For each hallway section, the value T2 can be set by using the facility manager
control panel .
FM5 For each room, the value T3 can be set by using the facility manager control panel.FM6 The facility manager can turn off the ceiling light groups in a room or hallway sec-
tion that is not occupied.
FM7 If a malfunction  occurs, the facility manager has to be informed.
FM8 If a malfunction occurs, the control system supports the facility manager in ﬁnding
the reason.
FM9 The system provides reports on current and past energy consumption.FM10 All malfunctions and unusual conditions are stored and reported on request.FM11 Malfunctions that the system cannot detect can be entered manually.
3.2 Non-Functional Needs
29The non-functional needs are split into several groups according to the aspect they are deal-
ing with. They are labelled by NF<number>.
3.2.1 Fault Tolerance
30In any case of failure, the system shall provide a stepwise degradation of functionality down
to manual operability.
31Needs in the case of a malfunction of the outdoor light sensor:
NF1 If any outdoor light sensor does not work correctly, the control system for rooms
should behave as if the outdoor light sensor had been submitting the last correctmeasurement of the outdoor light constantly.
NF2 If any outdoor light sensor does not work correctly, the default light scene for all
rooms is that all ceiling light groups are on.
NF3 If any outdoor light sensor does not work correctly and a hallway section is occu-
pied, the ceiling light group in this hallway section has to be on.
32Needs in the case of a malfunction of the motion detector:
NF4 If any motion detector of a room or a hallway section does not work correctly, the
control system should behave as if the room or the hallway section were occupied.
33Needs in a worst-case failure of the control system:
NF5 If the ceiling light group in a hallway section is controllable neither automatically
nor manually, the ceiling light group of this hallway section has to be on.
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 11
3.2.2 Safety and Legal Aspects
NF6 All hardware connections are made according to DIN standards.NF7 No hazardous conditions for persons, inventory, or building are allowed.
3.2.3 User Interface
NF8 The control panels are easy and intuitive to use.NF9 The system issues warnings on unreasonable inputs.
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 12
Part 4: Dictionary of Terms
Table 3: Dictionary of terms of the application domain
Keyword Description
actuatordevice that can be used by the control system to control an
environmental quantity
ambient light level illumination in a roomanalog sensor a sensor that measures an analog valuearchitecture structure of a building, ﬂoor, or roomceiling light group luminary under or in the ceiling,
chosen light scenealight scene chosen by a user using the room control panel for the
case that a room is occupied
computer labroom with a pool of terminals and workstations, open to all users and
temporarily to students of a class
control panelsmall device with a keyboard, LEDs for important states, and a sim-
ple display for textual messages
control systemhard- and software system that controls indoor climate, lighting,
safety and security
current light scene the light scene currently established by the control systemdefault light scene a light scene for the case that a room is not occupied
desired light settingthe setting of a ceiling light group in a room or a hallway section
desired by the control system
dimmable light luminary that can be dimmeddimmer-actuator actuator controlling the output of a luminarydoor connection between rooms and hallway sectionsdoor closed contact electrical or magnetic gadget to determine the state of a doorfacility manager person responsible for running a building on a daily basisfacility manager
control panela control panel for the facility manager
ﬂoor part of a buildinghallway sectionpart of a section between several rooms to connect them to each
other
hallway sections
ceiling light groupceiling light group in a hallway section
hardware lab room with terminals and other electronic devices
illumination amount of light falling on a surface, measured in lux
J.UCS Special Issue: Problem Description “ Light Control System” Page 13
installation equipment belonging to a building
light scenea light scene is a predeﬁned setting of the ambient light level and a
prescription that determines in which way the ceiling light groupsshould be used to achieve this ambient light level. A light scene isgiven by:1. name of the light scene2. the desired ambient light level in a room3. one of the following three options: window,wall,both
window means that at ﬁrst the ceiling light group near the window
should be used to achieve the desired ambient light level and thenthe other ceiling light groupwall means that at ﬁrst the ceiling light group near the wall should
be used to achieve the desired ambient light level and then theother ceiling light groupboth means that both ceiling light groups should be used equally
to achieve the desired ambient light level
malfunction incorrect behavior of a devicemeeting room a room open to all users
motion detectorsensor detecting motion of a person or animal in its range, state is on
during positive detection
ofﬁce room for one or two users with terminals and/or workstations
outdoor light sensorsensor measuring the illumination in a half sphere perpendicular to
it’s ﬂat bottom
peripheral room room for computer peripherals, copy machines; open to all users
push buttonan actuator for switching on and off a ceiling light group; it is on, as
long as pushed manually
room part of a sectionroom control panel a control panel in a roomsafe illumination illumination greater than 14 luxsection part of a ﬂoorsensor device that can sense somethingstaircase part of a building connecting several ﬂoorsstatus line wire that has the status of a device as valueuser person occupying a room or a hallway sectionTable 3: Dictionary of terms of the application domain
Keyword Description