4.1.1.1	The LPS software context level diagram (Figure 4-1) shows the interactions the LPS software has with other LPS ground system components.   Raw wideband data is accepted from the LGS, the LPS generates output files, and then the LP DAAC is notified.  The LPS operator issues directives to control the processing of the data.  An external time source is used by five of the seven LPS subsystems to get current system time.
4.1.1.2	LPS requirements from the F&PS have been allocated to each LPS subsystem.  These requirements have been further divided between operations, hardware, and software.  All software allocated have been analyzed to form this software requirements specification.
4.1.2.1	The LPS Level 0 DFD diagram (Figure 4-2) shows the internal flow of data between the seven LPS subsystems.  The raw data flows into the RDCS where it is captured.  The raw data is then sent to the RDPS where all transmission artifacts are removed, leaving spacecraft mission data.  This mission data (Ann_VCDU) is then passed to the MFPS.
4.1.2.2	The MFPS interprets the mission data and passes payload correction data to the PCDS and image data to the IDPS.  The MACS accepts accounting information from the processing subsystems and creates a metadata file.
4.1.2.3	When the metadata file is created, LDTS notifies the LP DAAC that the output files are ready for transfer.  LP DAAC then is responsible for transferring the files from the LPS to
4.2.1.1	The development environment for the LPS is the same for all SWCIs of the LPS.
4.2.1.2	The goal of the LPS is to develop most functions using software (this includes application software, COTS, GOTS, system software).  Doing so will reduce the need for custom hardware and facilitate future upgrades in service capability.
4.2.1.3	The application software will be developed using C and UNIX on an SGI Challenge series platform.
4.2.1.4	All operating system upgrades must be coordinated with the LPS development team.
4.2.1.5	All compilers and development tools must be upwardly compatible.
4.2.1.6	The Oracle DBMS COTS package will be used to manage the LPS database, generate reports (when applicable), and manage a user interface.
4.2.1.7	All government-furnished equipment will remain available to the development team during the design phases of LPS.
4.2.1.8	The LPS application software will be developed jointly by the LPS NASA developers and the LPS SEAS developers at GSFC. The operational environment will be at the EDC in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.
4.2.1.9	Since the LPS development staff will differ from the maintenance staff, the software must be developed and documented with this in mind.  On-line documentation, such as LPS specific man pages will be supported.
4.2.2.1	The following summarizes the LPS testing approaches: •System will be tested before delivering to EDC by LPS project personnel. •System will be acceptance tested at EDC by EDC personnel. •Testing at GSFC will include simulated data from GTSIM and spacecraft test data. •LPS will support the ground system end to end testing.
4.2.3.1	The LPS application software needs to be upgradeable.  For this reason, the application needs to be developed with portability in mind.
4.2.3.2	POSIX compliant code will be written whenever possible. There may be some instances where code is not compliant due to performance requirements. These instances will be clearly documented to facilitate maintenance.
4.3.0	The LPS software will support and comply with the general operational requirements for the LPS system.
4.3.1.1	The User-System Interface will be prototyped early in the preliminary design phase of the LPS. Sample screens and demonstrations will be provided to EDC personnel during that phase. See Section 6 for more details.
4.3.2.1	The training of the LPS operations personnel is TBD.  Some training will be needed for both operations and maintenance personnel.
4.3.3.1	The maintenance of the LPS software will occur at the EDC by the maintenance personnel.  The maintenance personnel are not planned to be the same or any subset of the development personnel.
4.4.0	This subsystem is responsible for receiving raw wideband data and placing it in a datastore for RDPS processing.  The raw wideband data is also saved on removable media.  This subsystem also restages raw wideband data from the removable media to the on-line datastore for later processing. On request, RDCS generates a data receive summary.
4.4.1.0	The following list summarizes the functional requirements allocated to the RDCS: •Provide the capability to receive return link wideband data for each contact period. •To record return link wideband data to removable media. •To retrieve return link wideband data upon request. •To generate an LPS wideband data receive summary for each contact period. •Delete data for a specific contact period.
4.4.1.1.1	RDCS captures a raw data byte stream after it receives the start capture directive from the MACS and outputs this raw wideband data to a datastore for further processing by other subsystems.  RDCS creates the Contact_Id information, stores it in the database, and provides it in RDC_Capture_Stat for displaying to the operator.  A contact summary report is generated upon receipt of a directive from MACS which includes the data set identifier.
4.4.1.1.2	RDCS captures a raw data byte stream after it receives the start capture directive from the MACS and outputs this raw wideband data to a datastore for further processing by other subsystems.  RDCS creates the Contact_Id information and notifies the MACS after a contact period ends. A contact summary report is generated upon receipt of a directive from MACS which includes the data set identifier.
4.4.1.1.3	Saving of the captured raw wideband data begins after receiving a MACS directive to start the recording to the removable media.  When a request for restaging of a contact period data set is issued by the MACS, the requested data set is recovered from the removable media to the on-line store.
4.4.1.1.4	When a MACS directive is received requesting a data receive summary, a report is generated describing the data set.  The report includes data volume and approximate number of Landsat 7 scenes along with other identifiers.
4.4.2.1	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall generate the information necessary to produce a data receive summary for received wideband data within 10 seconds of the conclusion of its capture.
4.4.2.2	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall produce a data receive summary for the most recently received wideband data within 10 seconds of the receipt of an appropriate directive from the MACS.
4.4.2.3	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to receive the equivalent of any combination of the format 1 and format 2 portions of 125 Landsat 7 ETM+ scenes of wideband data per day (approximately 25-30 GB per day).
4.4.2.4	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to copy received wideband data to removable media at a minimum rate of 7.5 Mbps.
4.4.2.5	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to copy received wideband data to removable media concurrently with Level 0R processing of that data.
4.4.2.6	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to reprocess a maximum of 10% of a string's daily input volume of wideband data (approximately 12.5 scenes or 2.5-3 GB per day).
4.4.2.7	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to copy received wideband data to removable media at a daily average aggregate rate of not less than 3 megabits per second (Mbps) (Includes 10% of overhead due to reprocessing).
4.4.2.8	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall maintain data processing throughput performance for all Landsat 7 raw wideband data received with a BER of one bit error in 105 bits, without loss of Level OR processed data and without retransmission.
4.4.2.9	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability of receiving wideband data from a single LGS output channel at a maximum rate of 75 Mbps.
4.4.2.10	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to receive wideband data for Landsat 7 contact periods of up to 14 minutes.
4.4.2.11	The RDCS software on each LPS string shall output any periodic processing status information that it generates with a maximum latency of 30 seconds between outputs.
4.5.1.0	The following list summarizes the functional requirements allocated to the RDPS: •validate and store the processing parameters received from MACS. •process the wideband data on a contact period basis. •detect and synchronize on normal and inverted polarity wideband data concurrently •the synchronization shall utilize a Search/Check/Lock/ Flywheel(SCLF) strategy. •invert bits with inverted polarity. •correct bit slips. •perform PN decoding. •perform CCSDS AOS Grade 3 service. •store all CADUs which have failed the CCSDS AOS Grade 3 checks. •delete VCDUs containing fill data. •perform BCH error detection and correction. •store all CADUs which have failed BCH error detection and correction on the mission data zone. •generate a return link quality and accounting report on a Landsat 7 contact period basis. •annotate the CADU with the VCID information. •compute the Bit Error Rate (BER).
4.5.1.1.1	The Raw Data Processing Subsystem first checks the CCSDS parameters for valid values and stores these parameters if they are valid.  If the CCSDS parameters are invalid default values will be used.
4.5.1.1.2	The raw wideband data is retrieved for the contact period requested by the operator. The frames are then synchronized using the search, check, lock, flywheel strategy.  Following SCLF synchronization, the frames are aligned on byte boundaries and, if the frame sync pattern is inverted, the data is normalized reversing the data inversion. The data is then decoded to reverse the Pseudo-Random Noise encoding.
4.5.1.1.3	Grade 3 error detection is performed including a Cyclic Redundancy Checksum calculation and Reed-Solomon checks on the header.  Any fill CADUs are discarded.
4.5.1.1.4	The final error detection performed on the data is the BCH Decode process that is performed on the mission and pointer data fields. This process also attempts to correct the data. Copies of the CADUs that fail the error detection processes are saved.  The VCDUs are annotated to reflect the data quality, and any change in the VCID. They are also annotated to mark the end of the contact period.  The bit error rate is calculated and information pertaining to the quality of the data is stored to be used in the generation of the return link quality and accounting report.
4.5.2.1	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process the equivalent of any combination of the format 1 and format 2 portions of 125 Landsat 7 ETM+ scenes of wideband data per day (approximately 25-30 GB per day).
4.5.2.2	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall process received wideband data at a minimum rate of not less than 7.5 Mbps. (based on a peak raw wideband throughput of 7.5 Mbps).
4.5.2.3	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to execute concurrently with all other LPS subsystems.
4.5.2.3.1	The RDPS software shall begin to process received raw wideband data immediately upon receipt of required inputs.
4.5.2.3.2	The RDPS software shall output the equivalent of one Landsat 7 ETM+ scene (215,445 CADUs) within 250 seconds of the time either at the beginning of processing or the time of its last output.
4.5.2.4	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to reprocess a maximum of 10% of a string's daily input volume of wideband data (approximately 12.5 scenes or 2.5-3 GB per day).
4.5.2.5	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process received wideband data at a daily average aggregate rate of 3 megabits per second (Mbps) (Includes 10% of overhead due to reprocessing).
4.5.2.6	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall maintain data processing throughput performance for all Landsat 7 raw wideband data received with a BER of one bit error in 105 bits, without loss of level zero processed data and without retransmission.
4.5.2.7	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to retrieve retained wideband data at rates equal to or greater than 7.5 Mbps.
4.5.2.8	The RDPS software on each LPS string shall output any periodic processing status information that it generates with a maximum latency of 30 seconds between outputs.
4.6.0	This subsystem is responsible for identifying a major frame and determining the major frame time.  This subsystem determines  the subinterval from the major frame time, the VCID, or the contact period.  The MFPS generates calibration and MSCD Level 0R files on a subinterval basis and scene data on a major frame basis.  The MFPS generates all Level 0R quality and accounting information.
4.6.1.0	The following list summarizes the functional requirements allocated to the MFPS: •validate and store the processing parameters received from MACS •identify and collect VCDUs on a major frame basis. •locate the minor frames that contain synchronization, major frame time, end of line code, scene data, calibration data, and MSCD. •extract PCD/Status data and identify the number of missing VCDUs. •determine the major frame time. •determine the subinterval. •deinterleave and align wideband data on a major frame basis. •extract, process, and generate calibration and MSCD files on a subinterval basis. •collect and generate Level 0R quality and accounting information on a subinterval basis.
4.6.1.1.1	Setup parameters and threshold values are validated upon receipt from the MACS.
4.6.1.1.2	In Identify VCDUs, VCDUs are collected for one major frame according to the scan bit and the VCID.  Error checking is performed on the VCDU sequence counter.  Missing VCDUs are identified during this time.  The VCID change and end of contact information are extracted here.
4.6.1.1.3	The Extract PCD process receives one VCDU at a time, plus the number of missing VCDUs, and an end of contact flag.  The PCD bytes are extracted from the VCDU and sent to PCDS, along with the number of missing VCDUs, and the end of contact flag.
4.6.1.1.4	Parse Major Frame is responsible for locating, extracting and validating the major frame synchronization, the end of line codes, and the major frame time.  Level 0R quality and accounting information is aggregated until a subinterval is detected. When a subinterval is detected, the Level 0R quality and accounting information is placed into the accounting store and the Level 0R quality and accounting aggregation store is reinitialized.
4.6.1.1.5	During Generate Band Data, the wide band data is deinterleaved and reversed.  Band alignment takes place according to the sensor alignment information.  In the case of missing major frames, MFPS outputs aligned bands containing fill.
4.6.1.1.6	The Extract Calibration and MSCD process handles extraction of data and the generation of the calibration and MSCD Level 0R files.
4.6.1.1.7	Quality and accounting from the Extract Calibration and MSCD process and Parse Major Frame process is collected on a subinterval basis and stored together. Level 0R quality and accounting reports for a given subinterval  are generated on request.
4.6.2.1	The MFPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process the equivalent of any combination of the format 1 and format 2 portions of 125 Landsat 7 ETM+ scenes of wideband data per day (approximately 25-30 GB per day).
4.6.2.2	The MFPS software on each LPS string shall process received data at a minimum rate of not less than 7.5 Mbps. (based on a minimum raw wideband throughput of 7.5 Mbps).
4.6.2.3	The MFPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to execute concurrently with all other LPS subsystems.
4.6.2.3.1	The MFPS software shall begin to process received raw data immediately upon receipt of required inputs.
4.6.2.3.2	The MFPS software shall output the equivalent of one Landsat 7 ETM+ scene worth's of Major Frames and PCD within 240 seconds of the receipt of all required inputs.
4.6.2.4	The MFPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to reprocess a maximum of 10% of a string's daily input volume of wideband data (approximately 12.5 scenes or 2.5-3 GB per day).
4.6.2.5	The MFPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process received wideband data at a daily average aggregate rate of 3 megabits per second (Mbps) (Includes 10% of overhead due to reprocessing).
4.6.2.6	The MFPS software on each LPS string shall maintain data processing throughput performance for all Landsat 7 raw wideband data received with a BER of one bit error in 105 bits, without loss of level zero R processed data and without retransmission.
4.6.2.7	The MFPS software on each LPS string shall output any periodic processing status information that it generates with a maximum latency of 30 seconds between outputs.
4.7.0	The PCDS is responsible for building PCD major frames using the PCD information words taken from the PCD/Status section of the virtual channel data unit (VCDU).  The PCD major frames contain data that is needed to geometrically correct the ETM+ imagery.  In addition, the PCDS identifies all Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (ETM+) scenes in accordance with the Worldwide Reference System (WRS) on a subinterval basis.
4.7.1.0	The following list summarizes the functional requirements allocated to the PCDS: •validate and store the processing parameters received from MACS. •provide the capability to synchronize on PCD bytes for assembling PCD minor frames, using fill for missing PCD data. Assemble PCD major frames using the PCD minor frames. •provide the capability to generate PCD file(s) on a subinterval basis. •provide the capability to collect and store PCD quality and accounting and processed PCD quality and accounting data on a subinterval basis. •provide the capability to perform ETM+ scene identification within an accuracy of 1 kilometer in accordance with the Worldwide Reference System (WRS) scheme. •calculate the spacecraft drift time based on information available in the PCD. •provide the capability to identify the presence of calibration door activities. •allow the operator to select thresholds for results and errors reported by the LPS.  Using the thresholds, automatically generate messages and alarms to alert the operator of LPS results and errors exceeding selected thresholds.
4.7.1.1.1	The PCDS accepts the PCD_Info from the Major Frame Processing Subsystem.  PCDS extracts the PCD information words from the PCD_Info that will be used to build PCD minor frames.  If any of the PCD information words are missing, then fill will be used in place of the missing information word.  The PCD minor frame accounting is generated on a subinterval basis.
4.7.1.1.2	The PCD minor frames are used to build PCD major frames.  PCD major frame quality and accounting is generated per PCD major frame.  Four consecutive PCD major frames are grouped into a Full_PCD_Cycle.  The Full_PCD_Cycles are used to build the PCD_File on a subinterval basis.
4.7.1.1.3	In addition, PCDS uses the Full_PCD_Cycles to extract the drift time for use by the Image Data Processing Subsystem (IDPS) on a subinterval basis.  The PCDS identifies the ETM+ scenes using the Full_PCD_Cycles in accordance with the Worldwide Reference System (WRS) scheme, and provides the scene parameters, per scene, on a subinterval basis.
4.7.2.1	The PCDS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process the equivalent of any combination of the format 1 and format 2 portions of 125 Landsat 7 ETM+ scenes of wideband data per day (approximately 25-30 GB per day).
4.7.2.2	The PCDS software on each LPS string shall process unpacked PCD data at a minimum rate of not less than 3.2 kilobits per second (Kbps) (based on a minimum raw wideband throughput of 7.5 Mbps)
4.7.2.3	The PCDS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to execute concurrently with all other LPS subsystems.
4.7.2.3.1	The PCDS software shall begin to process received raw wideband data immediately upon receipt of required inputs.
4.7.2.3.2	The PCDS software shall output a scene center identification, a sun azimuth at scene center value, and a sun elevation at scene center value within 240 seconds of the time of receiving all required inputs.
4.7.2.4	The PCDS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to reprocess a maximum of 10% of a string's daily input volume of wideband data (approximately 12.5 scenes or 2.5-3 GB per day).
4.7.2.5	The PCDS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process unpacked PCD data at a daily average aggregate rate of 12.7 Kbps per second (Includes 10% of overhead due to reprocessing).
4.7.2.6	The PCDS software on each LPS string shall maintain data processing throughput performance for all Landsat 7 raw wideband data received with a BER of one bit error in 105 bits, without loss of level zero processed data and without retransmission.
4.7.2.7	The PCDS software on each LPS string shall output any periodic processing status information that it generates with a maximum latency of 30 seconds between outputs.
4.8.0	This subsystem is responsible for producing band and browse image files, generating cloud coverage assessment scores, and validating certain user-defined parameters that are necessary for the subsystem.
4.8.1.0	The following list summarizes the functional requirements allocated to the IDPS:      • validate and store the processing parameters received from MACS.      • generate monochrome or multiband browse data for each ETM+ image on a subinterval basis.      • generate band file for each band received on a subinterval basis.      • perform Automatic Cloud Cover Assessment (ACCA) for WRS scenes using predefined comparison values on scene quadrant and full scene basis.
4.8.1.1.1	The IDPS subsystem, in its Band File Generation process, takes aligned band data from MFPS, separates it by subinterval and band, and produces band files.
4.8.1.1.2	In the Browse File Generation process, the aligned band data is separated by subinterval and then reduced by subsampling and wavelet algorithms to produce monochrome and multiband browse files.
4.8.1.1.3	In the ACCA process, the aligned band data is separated by scenes, and then an ACCA algorithm is used on the data to produce ACCA scores.
4.8.1.1.4	Certain parameters used in the above processes are also validated before their use in the Validate Band Parameters process.  Finally, accounting information is produced for metadata generation and the band and browse files are made available to the LDTS.
4.8.2.1	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process the equivalent of any combination of the format 1 and format 2 portions of 125 Landsat 7 ETM+ scenes of wideband data per day (approximately 25-30 GB per day).
4.8.2.2	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall process aligned band data at a minimum rate of not less than 7.5 Mbps (based on a minimum raw wideband throughput of 7.5 Mbps without PCD and CADU overhead).
4.8.2.3	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to execute concurrently with all other LPS subsystems.
4.8.2.3.1	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall begin to process received data immediately upon receipt of required inputs.
4.8.2.3.2	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall output scene metadata within 250 seconds of the time of receiving all required inputs.
4.8.2.4	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to reprocess a maximum of 10% of a string's daily input volume of data (approximately 12.5 scenes or 2.5-3 GB per day).
4.8.2.5	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to process received data at a daily average aggregate rate of 2.9 megabits per second (Mbps) (Includes 10% of overhead due to reprocessing).
4.8.2.6	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall maintain data processing throughput performance for all Landsat 7 raw data received with a BER of one bit error in 105 bits, without loss of level zero processed data and without retransmission.
4.8.2.7	The IDPS software on each LPS string shall output any periodic processing status information that it generates with a maximum latency of 30 seconds between outputs.
4.9.0	This subsystem is responsible for system level control and monitoring of LPS devices and processes, providing the interface between the LPS system and the operator, and generating the Metadata files on a subinterval basis.
4.9.1.0	The following list summarizes the functional requirements allocated to the MACS: •provide an orderly system start-up and shut-down capability. •provide the capability to monitor and control LPS operation, including the display of error messages or alarms to the operator. •generate Level 0R metadata file(s) on a subinterval basis. •provide the capability to display and/or print LPS summary or quality and accounting information upon operator request. •provide monitoring test points and indicators to verify proper operation of system capabilities and components. •provide the capability to manually override LPS automated functions or to suspend LPS file generation. •notify LDTS when to send the DAN to LP DAAC.
4.9.1.1.1	Upon receipt of operator keyed Directive, the MACS first determines which subsystem the directive belongs to and forwards the Directive to the target subsystem. If the Directive is either MACS_Modify_Schedule_Drct or MACS_Modify_Config_Drct, it sends the Directive to Modify Contact Schedule or Modify LPS Configuration function to modify the appropriate data store. If the Directive is MACS_Control_Drct, it sends it to LPS System Control function for LPS system level control.
4.9.1.1.2	When the RDP_Process_Drct is issued, the Contact_Id is forwarded to the Generate Metadata process, which generates a metadata file for each subinterval in the contact period. Once all associated metadata files are completed, the MACS sends a notification (LDT_Send_DAN) with Contact_Id to the LDTS for the readiness of file transfer to LP DAAC.
4.9.1.1.3	During LPS operation, the MACS monitors for system failure.  It receives the processing status (RDC_Return_Status, RDP_Return_Status, MFP_Return_Status, PCD_Return_Status, IDPS_Return_Status, and LDTS_Return_Status) from the subsystems and displays it to the  operator.  It also displays or reports the quality and accounting information (LPS_Acct) or summary information (Data_Receive_Summary, Return_Link_QA_ Report, Level0R_QA, and LDT_Transfer_Sum) upon  operator request.
4.9.2.1	The MACS software on each LPS string shall forward any directive to start/stop data capture or to generate a data receive summary to the RDCS within one second of its receipt from the operator.
4.9.2.2	The MACS software on each LPS string shall display a data receive summary for the most recently received raw wideband data within one second of its receipt from the RDCS.
4.9.2.3	The MACS software on each LPS string shall submit a data receive summary for the most recently received raw wideband data to a print queue within 1 second of its receipt from the RDCS.
4.9.2.4	The MACS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to execute concurrently with all other LPS subsystems.
4.9.2.4.1	The MACS software on each LPS string shall begin to process metadata  immediately upon receipt of required inputs.
4.9.2.4.2	The MACS software on each LPS string shall output a metadata file within 240 seconds of the time of receiving all required inputs.
4.9.2.5	The MACS software on each LPS string shall maintain data processing throughput performance for all Landsat 7 raw wideband data received with a BER of one bit error in 105 bits, without loss of level zero processed data and without retransmission.
4.9.2.6	The mean time to bring up the MACS software on any LPS string (from operating system boot to readiness to accept operator inputs) shall not exceed 12 minutes (based on a 15 minute estimate from RMA analysis and allowing 3 minutes for operator initiation and network latencies, 5 minutes for OS boot, 5 minutes for DBMS startup, and 2 minutes for LPS software start-up).
4.9.2.7	The time to bring up the MACS software on any LPS string (from operating system boot to readiness to accept operator inputs) shall not exceed twice the required mean time to bring up MACS software in 99 percent of all cases.
4.9.2.8	The MACS software on each LPS string shall output any periodic processing status information that it generates with a maximum latency of 30 seconds between outputs.
4.10.0	This subsystem is responsible for sending a Data Availability Notification (DAN) to the LP DAAC about the availability of LPS files on a contact basis. Upon receiving a Data Transfer Acknowledgment (DTA), this subsystem is responsible for deleting the successfully transferred files. This subsystem is also responsible for generating a daily file transfer summary report upon request.
4.10.1.0	The following list summarizes the functional requirements allocated to the LDTS: •Interface with the LP DAAC to coordinate the transfer of LPS output files to the LP DAAC. •notify LP DAAC on the availability of LPS files. •provide the capability to receive notification from LP DAAC on the successful receipt of transferred LPS files. •provide the capability to store LPS  data files until confirmation of successful transfer is received from the LP DAAC. •provide a manual over-ride and protected capability to delete all LPS files on a specific contact period basis. •provide a manual over-ride and protected capability to retain all LPS files on-line on a specific contact period basis. •provide the capability to generate LPS file(s) transfer summary on a daily basis. •provide the capability to manually override the LPS automated functions. •provide the capability to selectively enable or disable the Transfer LPS Files function.
4.10.1.1.1	The Generate DAN function receives the LDT_Send_DAN directive from the MACS and then retrieves information from the LDT_Output_File_Info data store to build a data availability notification (DAN).
4.10.1.1.2	The DAN is passed to the Send DAN function which sends it to the LP DAAC. Sending DAN can be enabled or disabled by operator via the Control Send DAN function. The DAN will be resent upon operator's request (LDT_Resend_DAN_Drct).
4.10.1.1.3	The Receive DTA function processes the DTA received from the LP DAAC and notifies the Delete LPS Files function to delete successfully transferred files.  File deletions can be overridden by operator via the Retain LPS File function.
4.10.1.1.4	The LDT_Output_File_Info data store is maintained by the Generate DAN, Delete LPS Files, Retain LPS Files and Receive DAT functions. It is used by the Generate Transfer Summary Report function to build and send to MACS a Report_LDT_File_Xfer_Sum.
4.10.1.1.5	The Transfer Files function handles file transfers between the LPS and LP DAAC.
4.10.2.1	The LDTS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to transfer the equivalent of any combination of the format 1 and format 2 portions of 125 Landsat 7 ETM+ scenes of wideband data per day (approximately 25-30 GB per day). [4.1.3]
4.10.2.2	The LDTS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to execute concurrently with all other LPS subsystems.
4.10.2.2.1	The LDTS software on each LPS string shall output a DAN within 240 seconds of the time of receiving all required inputs.
4.10.2.3	The LDTS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to reprocess a maximum of 10% of a string's daily input volume of wideband data (approximately 12.5 scenes or 2.5-3 GB per day).
4.10.2.4	The LDTS software on each LPS string shall maintain data processing throughput performance for all Landsat 7 raw wideband data received with a BER of one bit error in 105 bits, without loss of level zero processed data and without retransmission.
4.10.2.5	The LDTS software on each LPS string shall provide the capability to transfer the string's daily volume of LPS output files to the LP DAAC at an average aggregate rate of 10 Mbps.
4.10.2.6	The LDTS software on each LPS string shall output any periodic processing status information that it generates with a maximum latency of 30 seconds between outputs.