3.1.1.1	The interface between the CMIB, MCCC, and CPCC shall be Ethernet (IEEE 802.3 compliant) of 100 Mbits/sec or better data rate.
3.1.1.2	The interface shall be transformer coupled copper twisted pair unless other materials are required for noise (RFI), ground isolation, or physical layout constraints (long distances).
3.1.1.3	Network switches shall be employed to distribute traffic within a correlator rack and where their use will significantly reduce overall network wiring complexity.
3.1.1.4	The MCCC -CMIB, MCCC -CPCC, and MCCC -EVLA M&C networks shall be on separate physical interfaces.
3.1.1.5	There shall be a redundant communication path (serial RS -232c or equivalent) between the MCCC and CPCC to provide for remote reboot in the event of a networking or computing failure.
3.1.2.1	The interface between the MCCC and external networks (EVLA M&C) shall be Ethernet (IEEE 802.3 compliant) of 100 Mbits/sec or better data rate.
3.1.2.2	Pathways penetrating the correlator shielded room shall be fiber optic or other low RFI material to meet RFI specifications.
3.1.2.3	Network routers/switches shall be employed at the MCCC - EVLA M&C interface level (or higher) to protect the MCCC from unauthorized access and irrelevant network traffic.
3.1.3.1	The CMIB daughter board shall communicate with the correlator carrier boards via either the PCI or ISA busses . Alternative communication paths may be through a serial or parallel connection as required.
3.1.3.2	The CMIB shall be capable of reading a 16 -bit identifier from the host correlator board . This identifier will be used to form a unique IP address for CMIB net work addressing and allow carry over IP addressing for hot swap modules.
3.1.3.3	The CMIB shall be able to read back the contents of all writeable hardware control registers where meaningful. It is desired that the state of the correlator hardware be available through interrogation across the CMIB bus for monitoring and fault tolerance.
3.1.3.4	The CMIB shall have control of hardware “warm boots” such that an external command from the MCCC to reboot the CMIB shall have an option to force a hardware warm boot.
3.1.3.5	The carrier board for the CMIB shall have an externally visible indicator (LED or other) that will provide a user with a physical indication of CMIB operational stat us (red = fault, green = ok).
3.2.1.1	Where applicable, all computers and peripherals shall be powered though UPS type devices with sufficient capacity for the computer s to safely coordinate a system wide shutdown of the correlator hardware in the event of a prolonged power outage. The UPS devices need the ability to signal the CMCS when a power outage has occurred and keep the CMCS apprised of time remaining on backup power.
3.2.1.2	All computers within the CMCS system shall have the ability for authorized users to directly access individual systems for maintenance and monitoring through remote logins.
3.2.1.3	Each computer system in t he CMCS shall have a hardware based watchdog timer configured to reboot the system in the case of a system hang.  Reboots should result in minimal system interruptions with the offending CPU reconfiguring and returning to service autonomously.
3.2.2.1	The CMIB shall conform to both electrical and physical PC104+ standards.
3.2.2.2	The CMIB shall contain 64 Mbytes or greater of SDRAM, IDE hard disk interface, minimum of one serial and one parallel interface, PCI/ISA buses, 100BaseT network interface, capacity to boot and run a generic COTS operating system in a near real -time environment from local non -volatile storage.
3.2.2.3	The operating system/module combination shall be capable of supporting the real -time requirements of the correlator hardware, hardware monitor/control/diagnostics with support for standalone “test bench” operation with simulated control data generation, and the ability to access and upgrade correlator hardware PLD/FPGA personalities through its network connection.
3.2.3.1	The MCCC shall be a high availability type general - purpose computer capable of supporting multiple Ethernet interfaces, COTS operating systems, and support server/host services for the CMIB operating system.  This computer may exist as a hot swappable or redundant CPU device capable of self -healing where possible.
3.2.3.2	The MCCC shall have all required disk and file system facilities installed locally such that the system can boot and run in a stand -alone configuration.  This should allow the correlator CMIBs to boot, configure, and run without any communication outside of the correlator M&C network.
3.2.4.1	The CPCC shall be a high availability type general purpose computer capable of supporting a COTS operating system and have the ability to accept a large number of external hardware status signals (power, temp, etc) either directly or through external interface hardware.  This computer may exist as a hot swappable or redundant CPU device capable of self -healing where possible.
3.2.4.2	The CPCC shall have all required disk and file system facilities installed locally such that the system can boot and run in a stand -alone configuration.  This requirement is to allow correlator power monitoring and control to continue in the event of an M&C network failure.
3.3.1.1	The CMCS processors shall be EVLA Correlator Monitor and Control SRS  10 capable of meeting all data processing deadlines and anticipated future requirements
3.3.1.2	The CMCS processors shall be capable of responding to correlator hardware inputs (interrupts) in a deterministic fashion with sufficient performance to avoid data loss, corruption or overflows.
3.3.2.1	All lower system error and debug messages shall be present at the MCCC layer . Aside from a networking or CPU failure, It should never be necessary to directly access a CPU to display error messages.
3.3.2.2	All system error and debug messages shall be categorized in a logical fashion such that message traffic can be filtered as to content, detail, and message rate . Personnel interested in error messages should be able to easily filter the error message stream.
3.3.2.3	All messages passed between CMCS system layers shall have both UTC and wall clock time stamp information appropriate for the message type.  Error messages will be stamped with their discovery time, control messages will be stamped with their generation time. Other message internal time stamps can be used as monitor/control parameters as deemed necessary.
3.3.2.4	Software shall be provided that allows an authorized user full access to all messaging, monitor, and control traffic throughout the CMCS. This software will provide full system access for testing, debugging, and control while the correlator is offline or under the control of the EVLA M&C system.
3.3.2.5	A Graphical User Interface shall be provided as an interface to the CMCS test software that allows for a convenient and configurable tool to access the CMCS remotely through the VCI.
3.4.1	the CMCS shall be self -monitoring.  It will be  capable of detecting, reporting on and automatically taking action to remedy or lessen  the impact of, at a minimum, the following types of abnormal conditions: processor hardware failure, operating system hangs or crashes, temperature or voltage deviations, computational performance below minimum specifications, computational error rates above maximum specification, internal communications failures, and external (with the EVLA M&C) communications disruptions.
3.4.2	the software part of the system shall be able to perform without total system restart due to internal failure between system maintenance windows.
3.4.3	the hardware part of the system shall be able to perform indefinitely without complete loss of service, except in the event of total failure of primary and backup power.
3.4.4	the system shall be able to continue processing of all correlator configuration/control events until the queues of parameters are exhausted and external communications are restored
3.4.5	the system shall be able to sit at idle and resume operations with minimal (amount TBD) delay.
3.5.1	all system processing and interconnect hardware shall be readily accessible for maintenance, repair, replacement and/or reconfiguration. This excludes items that due to their physical location, are not practical to configure for ready access (i.e. backplanes)
3.5.2	all systems and application source code shall be available to or on the systems that execute it .
3.5.3	all software application modules shall be debuggable. They should be organized such that all inputs and outputs can be simulated if necessary.
3.5.4	all software processes shall be killable, restartable, debuggable and testable with minimal impact on normal system operations.
3.6.1	software tools and pre -built applications that do not have source code available shall come with a complete diagnostic package and customer support.
3.6.2	operating system software shall either have source code available or come with sufficient diagnostics and customer support.
3.7.1	I/O, communications, and processing hardware shall be easily expandable, reconfigurable, augmentable and replaceable to meet increasing data traffic and processing demands imposed by EVLA science, Correlator changes, and availability of new hardware.
3.7.2	Requirement 3.7.1, above, shall be accomplished in manner that is transparent to processing, communications and I/O software functions with the possible exception of recompilation of executables .
3.7.3	Requirement 3.7.1, above, shall be accomplished in a manner that is seamless, in that it does not affect hardware modules or software functionality that it meets at interfaces.
3.8.1	All users of the system shall login using some form of unique identification. (e.g., username and password)
3.8.2	All login attempts shall be done in a secure manner. (e.g., encrypted passwords)
3.8.3	A system administrator shall have unrestricted access to all aspects of the system.
3.8.4	Each user shall have a set of system access properties that defines the user’s privileges within the system. (e.g., the subsystems a user may control or system tools the user may access).
3.8.5	The administrator shall have the ability to create and add a new user to the system.
3.8.6	The administrator shall have the ability to remove a user from the system.
3.8.7	The administrator shall have the ability to edit a user’s system access properties.
3.8.8	The administrator shall have the ability to block all access to the system for all users or selectively by user. (All blocked users with active sessions shall automatically be logged off.)
3.9.1	the system shall continue operations, although not EVLA Correlator Monitor and Control SRS  13 necessarily at full capacity, on all unaffected resources during partial shutdowns for maintenance, repair and/or upgrade.
3.9.2	modular design principles shall be employed to the maximum extent possible. Maximal practical use of available “hot-swappable” devices and components shall be made.
3.10.1	complete and comprehensible hardware systems specifications and configuration information shall be readily available.
3.10.2	software system and application code shall be well documented and written in a generally familiar language or languages (preferably not more than two).  Software shall be written in a style that is easily readable and using practices that allow for minimal confusion.