1.6.1	Management Processes support the needs of a large, multiple-system library consortium and its individual component systems and branches. Specifically, the system must support a library consortium with 286 locations, 17 million annual circulations, purchasing and processing over 900,000 items per year. It is highly desirable that searches and reports can be processed during open hours without disrupting other system functions.
1.6.2	Management Processes shall operate on a Linux or Solaris server.
1.6.3	Management Processes shall be accessible through a web-browser or a Windows-compatible client.
1.6.4	If web-browser based, Management Processes shall be accessible through Microsoft Internet Explorer (v.6.0 and later) and Mozilla Firefox (v.2.0 and later).
1.6.5	Management Processes shall be accessible with screen-reading software, screen-magnification software, and other software programs designed to increase accessibility.
1.7.1	Management Processes shall use a fully relational database back-end.
1.7.2	Management Processes shall produce standards-compliant HTML.
1.7.3	Management Processes shall provide a development and training environment with the ability to migrate configurations to a production environment.
1.7.4	User rights and privileges will be controlled through security groups and/or “roles” that allow access control for individuals, workgroups, and arbitrary staff groups.
1.7.5	These requirements shall not constrain functionality or features of the Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC) module.
1.8.1	The software developer shall provide complete data specifications for authority records, bibliographic records, order records, item records, hold/request records, and other records maintained or accessed by Management Processes.
1.8.2	The software developer shall provide a thorough high-level description of major processes, including bibliographic record import and export, validation of bibliographic records against internal and external authority sources, and standard reports.
1.8.3	The system shall provide an online, hierarchical, and cross-linked help system in HTML that describes and illustrates all system functions.
1.8.4	The system shall provide thorough high-level error reporting and feedback and shall allow low-level query-specific feedback for Local and Global System Administrators from the front-end interface.
2.1.1.1	The system supports (but does not require) streamlined staff login methods, for example staff member swipes a card to log into a terminal or the staff member logs into a terminal by using his/her individual login and password.
2.1.2.1	System administrators can create reliable report templates that are available to staff, and can be run as is or modified to the staff person's particular needs. Changes in the templates could be done without comprising the results. The administrator can limit the filters and display fields that can be altered to certify a dependable output. For example, front-line staff could set the call number range for a weeding report or add or remove designated display fields from a pick list, but couldn’t alter the template to display deleted items.
2.1.3.1	System provides distinct, fine-grained permission levels limiting who can create and clone reports. All permissions should be easy to administer. System administrators can create shared folders to allow or disallow staff to run specific reports, and/or to run ad hoc reports on specific sets of data.
2.1.4.1	System provides a user-friendly interface for designing queries against all record types. Staff can select fields to query; select values from picklist of possible values; select regular expressions from drop-down menu, and use a full range of Boolean operators. Administrators control staff access to tables and fields.
2.1.5.1	The system provides pre-defined reports for consumption by library boards or other consumers. There will be reports providing basic statistics like those required by the Georgia Annual Report and Application for State Aid and activity reports that indicate traffic and volume of use that display statistics on check-outs, check-ins, holds placed, and holds filled. It should be possible cross-tabulated per terminal, per branch, per library system, per hour, per patron age range, per patron type, and per patron location.
2.1.6.1	Transactions are archived in a form that protects patron privacy as defined by State Law, while providing useful demographic statistics.
2.1.7.1	Examples of periodic reports: bibliographic records with holds; items that have not been checked out in X days; item-level holds; items with invalid item type; in-transit items with outstanding hold; items that have been in-transit for more than X days; items that are the last copy in the system; items with a long call number; missing items; bibliographic records with no item records; patrons with invalid home library.
2.1.8.1	System provides the query selections along with the results.
2.1.9.1	Ability to see where your report is in the queue of reports waiting to run.
2.1.10.1	System must be able to support the reporting definitions as described in Appendix A.
2.1.11.1	System must be able to support the fine-grained reports requirements as described in Appendix B.
2.2.1.1	The system produces statistics that can be used to understand and predict patron behavior and use of materials. For example, how quickly is a particular book returned, on average? How likely is a particular book to be renewed? What percent of check-outs at a particular branch are renewals?
2.2.2.1	The system produces useful demographic statistics, including transactions by geographical regions, age ranges, etc. The data used to produce these statistics must be anonymized, i.e. information that could be used to identify a patron is deleted.
2.3.1.1	Ability to report on the volume of material in a given library at any point in time, based on new acquisitions, items on the shelf, and items out in circulation, with the ability to break down volume in categories (e.g. total items in library, number of holds, number of adult fiction, number of board books, etc).
2.3.2.1	The system provides an interface showing capacity of all branches (as defined in PINES-014).
2.3.3.1	For each genre and format of material, ability to compare the percentage of total circulations, the percentage of the collection, and the percentage of total shelf space that genre/format comprises. Ability to report per library and per system.
2.3.4.1	Ability to control inventory of uncataloged material, such as paperback books and children's board books. Support for quick distribution; minimal branch labor; and ability to identify how the material is being used. Ability to count transactions and include in circulation statistics and reports.
2.3.5.1	System provides a utility for transferring batches of items between branches, used for example to move books into a mobile library, an outreach program collection, or a "just-in-time" warehouse. Utility includes ability to query for candidate materials; ability to save queries for repeated use; ability to manually select titles from query results; and ability to change records of all or selected items to move to new location. Mechanisms for moving items include changing location field, generating pull lists, etc. In addition, utility provides means to revert items to original location after a set period of time, and/or based on other criteria.
2.3.6.1	The system provides reports of missing and damaged items per branch.
2.3.7.1	The system generates a list of items that have been in-transit for more than X days (X configurable), per branch and per system.  The report would merge the transit to and transit from into one report for ease of front-line staff use.
2.3.8.1	The system provides a utility and reports for identifying item records to purge, based on customizable criteria such as: an item has been in status "missing" for more than X months; an item has status "discard/weed". The system has a report to assist in the conversion of items from one status to another. The system provides a last copy report that would single out a library system's last copies, to assist catalogers who need to edit WorldCat entries. The system provides a quick effective method of deleting volume entries along with copy entries, as well as records with no items attached.
2.3.9.1	Ability to count and track record deletions (e.g. item records, patron records) per location and per system.
2.4.1.1	Queries and reports can be limited or grouped by various patron characteristics, including: age range, zip code, county of residence, home branch, patron type, and preferred language.
2.4.2.1	The system generates a list of patrons with no circulation or electronic activity in the last X days (X configurable).  List should be configurable to System, Home Library, County, etc.
2.5.1.1	Transaction history is maintained for X days (X is configurable); monthly and annual aggregate information is maintained indefinitely.
2.5.2.1	Transactions can be grouped by hour, terminal, branch, and system. Transactions include check-ins, check-outs, fines collected, patron registrations, etc., and can be queried by all transactions or by type of transaction.
2.5.3.1	The system counts all types of check-in individually and cumulatively: book-drop, by terminal, by user or self-service.
2.5.4.1	The system counts all types of check-out individually and cumulatively: staff check-out, self check-out, staff renewal, self checkout renewal, online renewal, OPAC renewal.
2.5.5.1	The system counts all hold requests, including how the hold was placed: at a staff desk, at a public computer inside the library, or remotely.
2.5.6.1	The system can generate a report of transactions (holds placed, holds filled, and check-outs) per patron, per library, per selected group o libraries, per system, per county. The system displays the number of check-outs and placed holds per patron. Holds are subtotaled by type, e.g. active, frozen, and frozen-until holds.
2.6.1.1	The system can generate a report of the value of items (based on data in item record) in the entire collection or a portion. Example: staff can obtain value of all items with status of long overdue, or value of all dvds in children's collection, or value of entire collection.
2.6.2.1	All reports and data archiving must comply with standard accounting practice and state, county, and municipal auditing requirements.
2.6.3.1	Fines, charges, waivers, and ecommerce transactions are attached to patron and item records. System tracks fines waived and payments made per library. Financial information can be updated easily. As an example, a staff user can easily query patron accounts with balances greater than X dollars.
2.6.4.1	The system provides financial reports including: patron account balances by patron, home library, and system; fines and charges accrued per time period (e.g. last twelve months, YTD, last month) and per type of charge (overdue fines, damaged item charges, lost item charges, etc.); fines waived per time period and per branch; payments made per time period and per payment method (e.g. staff desk, self-check station, OPAC).
2.6.5.1	The system maintains a ledger of patron payments, including which charges payments are applied to, to facilitate reconciliation.