1.6.1	System Administration support the needs of a large, multiple-branch library system. Specifically, the system must support a library sys tem with 50 locations, 20 million circulations, purchasing and processing over 500,00 0 items per year.  It is highly desirable that searches and reports can be processed during open hours without disrupting other system functions.
1.6.2	System Administration shall operate on a Linux or Solaris server.
1.6.3	System Administration shall be accessible through a web-browser or a Windows-compatible client.
1.6.4	If web-browser based, System Administration s hall be accessible through Microsoft Internet Explorer (v.6.0 and later) and Mozilla Firefox (v.2.0 and later).
1.6.5	System Administration shall be accessible with screen-reading software, screen-magnification software, and other software programs  designed to increase accessibility.
1.7.1	System Administration Module shall use a full y relational database back-end.
1.7.2	System Administration Module shall produce standards-compliant HTML.
1.7.3	System Administration Module shall provide a development and training environment with the ability to migrate configurations to a production environment.
1.7.4	User rights and privileges will be controlled  through security groups and/or “roles” that allow access control for individuals, workgroups, and arbitrary staff groups.
1.8.1	The software developer shall provide complete  data specifications for authority records, bibliographic records, order records, item  records, hold/request records, and other records maintained or accessed by the System Administration Module.
1.8.2	The software developer shall provide a thorough high-level description of major processes, including bibliographic record import an d export, validation of bibliographic records against internal and external  authority sources, and standard reports.
1.8.3	The system shall provide an online, hierarchical, and cross-linked help system in HTML that describes and illustrates all system functions.
1.9.1	The System Administration Module is part of an enterprise-level Library Automation System.
1.9.2	System Administration process are consolidated at a central location, and accept input and provide services to multiple locations.
1.9.3	The System Administration Module relies on the data structures and functionality of an enterprise-level Library Automation System, including Acquisitions and Cataloging modules.
1.9.4	The System Administration Module interface with a variety of vendor websites, via published APIs and/or automated transfer of standard-format data files (e.g. USMARC21, EDIFACT).
1.9.5	The System Administration Module interacts with a patron interface, also known as an Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC.
1.10.1.1	System runs on a fully relational, SQL-based database system.  Ability to run SQL queries against any table in the database. Ability to access database as an ODBC source. All data tables and data storage are fully accessible.
1.10.2.1	The system provides real-time processing.  For example:  pull lists are up to date at time of viewing or printing; system supports live shelf reading and weeding.
1.10.3.1	Ability for multiple staff members and patrons to simultaneously access and update patron and item records, including on staff check-in and check-out terminals, on self check-out stations, through SIP2/NCIP2 and similar protocols and APIs, and in OPAC. Depending on assigned privileges, staff can view all patron and item fields; patrons can access only selected fields. Record changes are applied in  a reasonable way, with prompts to warn when a record has been changed  since it was displayed.
1.10.4.1	For any patron record or item record, staff can identify where it is in use (location, user, date and time placed).
1.10.5.1	Support for individual and shared staff login accounts; access to modules is granted by use of "roles" or "privileges " that allow each account to access as many (or as few) modules as needed. Individual logins allow user-level preferences and audit trail .
1.10.6.1	System documentation is library-specific and follows standard formats for technical documentation. Documentation is specific to the particular version of the software in use at library. Documentation is web-based, indexed, organized by function, and easily searchable.
1.10.7.1	System upgrades and updates include written guidelines for updating servers and clients.  Includes list of new, changed , and removed features.
1.10.8.1	System provides access to all configuration files.
1.10.9.1	System provides full access to all log files.  Log files can be reviewed without stopping system. Logs can be enabled, disabled, and set to a specific retention threshold.
1.10.10.1	System provides access to root shell.
1.11.1.1	System supports creation of custom dashboards that display current and historical data about system performance, record creation and modification, circulation transactions, etc.  Administrators can create dashboards and give access to selected users and groups.
1.11.2.1	System provides full support for SNMP and supports monitoring of system resources, including disk space, CPU load, memory load, system processes, system interfaces and ports.  Ale rt thresholds are configurable. Alerts can be sent via administrative  dashboards, email messages, and text messages. Alerts can be sent to unlimited number of recipients via any or all alert methods.
1.11.3.1	Ability to set thresholds on the length of time records are locked  and provide, for all record types, a list of records in  sustained use/locked condition. Ability from the same console to unlock one or more records.
1.11.4.1	System provides dashboard of performance monitoring  and management tools. Identification of processes with process ID, owner username, IP address (if applicable), CPU utilization, memory utilization, run time. Runaway processes are identified. System status is represented by visual indicators (e.g. green and red lights).
1.11.5.1	System provides a server management console including:  software shutdown utility, software startup utility, server shutdown utility, server restart utility.
1.11.6.1	System provides an administrative dashboard displaying: last full and incremental backup; last planned and unplanned system reboot; last software upgrade; current software version; transactions waiting to be processed; size of log-files; current count of records by record type (item, bibliographic, patron etc), database utilization (size, processes running).
1.11.7.1	System provides a management console displaying workstations running client software; workstation name and IP ad dress; and utilities for managing and killing client sessions.
1.11.8.1	System provides a circulation dashboard showing key  performance indicators such as check-outs per hour, check-ins per hour, holds placed per hour, holds paged per day, etc. Indicators can be limited to a single branch or set to systemwide.
1.11.9.1	System provides a single console with access to all  configuration files.  Read and write permission to individual configuration files can be assigned to users and groups.
1.11.10.1	System provides a dashboard for locating and viewing log files.
1.11.11.1	System provides a single interface for reviewing an d controlling scheduled tasks, including staff-scheduled tasks, automated reports, scheduled imports and exports, software updates, et c.
1.11.12.1	Ability to access and edit email configuration, including a quick menu of common settings (such as masquerading, log retention, bounce management).
1.11.13.1	System supports SMTP for email transport.
1.12.1.1	System supports restrictions based on business rule s, e.g. restrictions on deleting item records that are in checked-out status, or restrictions on deleting bibliographic records with existing holds.
1.12.2.1	System provides customizable 'Rules of Suppression'  that specify whether patrons and staff can view authority, bibliographic, order, and item records in staff and public (OPAC) interfaces.  Records may be visible to specific workgroups only; to all staff and patrons at specific locations; or to all staff and all patrons. (See RE Q-5057 for related requirements on loan rules, and REQ-5190 for related requirements on holdability.)
1.12.3.1	System allows creation and modification of requesting rules that determine whether a patron can place a hold on an item. Requesting rules may evaluate patron type, current number of holds, current patron account balance, item type, item status, owning location code, and other criteria. For example, requesting rules m ay prohibit patrons from placing holds on on-order CD titles, but allow  patrons to place holds on other on-order titles. Requesting rules al so specify whether staff with specific privileges or roles can override specific criteria. (See REQ-5057 re loan rules, REQ-5278 re visibility.)
1.12.4.1	System allows creation and modification of loan rules that allow or disallow check-out of items, calculate loan periods ,  and determine renewal limits. Loan rules may evaluate patron type , current number of items checked out, current patron account balance, item type, item status, owning location code, check-out location code, and other criteria. For example, loan rules may prohibit patrons from checking out items with an unavailable status, e.g. an item with a triggered hold for another patron or an item that is already checked out to another patron. Loan rules can access check-out location open/closed schedule in calculating due date. Loan rules also specify whether a specific criteria may be overridden by staff with specific privileges or roles. (Also see REQ-5190 re requesting rules.)
1.12.5.1	Ability to specify default value, data validation, automatic formatting, and required status for any field.
1.13.1.1	System provides capability to perform live incremental and full backups of data and transaction logs. System supports use of third-party backup software such as EMC NetWorker.
1.13.2.1	System logs data changes (such as record deletions)  and provides "undo" functionality.  Ideally, system provides revision control.
1.13.3.1	Ability to cluster servers for failover capability.
1.14.1.1	Patron data is secure in all transfers to and from the system.
1.14.2.1	System administrative staff has full visibility and  control of user privileges.
1.14.3.1	System supports secure protocols, including SFTP, S SL, and SSH. SFTP is supported in both active and passive modes,  configurable per vendor.
1.15.1.1	MARC bibliographic and authority records can be imported and exported, singly and in batch, all fields or select ed fields, to and from vendors including OCLC. Imported records can overlay existing short or full bibliographic records. Imported batches can  be maintained and manipulated as selection lists (see REQ-3004).
1.15.2.1	 System supports an unlimited number of record sets,  with the ability to import and export set members in batch.  Record set s can be the basis for batch field updates; can be used as a limiting scope for queries; can be used to delete original records with the ability to review prior to deletion, write errors to a log file, and undo one or more deletions.
1.15.3.1	 System provides a dedicated interface for creating new staff accounts. New staff account creation process provides configurable templates for account administrator use; provides granular privileges for account creation, modification, and deletion.
1.15.4.1	System provides a dedicated interface for creating new patron accounts.  Patron account creation process provides  configurable templates for staff use; supports field validation and required fields; provides configurable defaults.
1.15.5.1	System supports scheduling of maintenance tasks, re ports, and data exports.  Jobs can be scheduled in sequence ("start  job B when job A finishes") and can be modified or cancelled at any time prior to starting.
1.15.6.1	 Staff can be given permission to schedule tasks, re ports, and data exports.  System administration staff can view and manage jobs scheduled by other staff.
1.15.7.1	System supports administrator-programmable and user-programmable macros and/or keyboard shortcuts. Shortcut keys may be assigned to macros (e.g. 'Insert Field') or to text strings. Macros are centrally managed on server, can be imported from and exported to individual users, and can be restricted for use and/or editing through centrally-managed permissions.
1.16.1.1	Staff and group accounts are independent from workstations; client install should not be tied to a specific location.
1.16.2.1	Client software installation and updates must be centrally managed, using standard or proprietary network management tools, allowing streaming updates from server.  Ability to specify specific clients to be updated. Client software can be managed with VNC an d Remote Desktop.
1.16.3.1	All client configuration files are server based; configurations can be exported and imported between clients.
1.17.1.1	Ability to fully customize layout and appearance of  reports. Ability to display, print, email, or save report to standard formats including CSV and Excel, as well as to customizable formats.
1.17.2.1	System provides a user-friendly interface for designing queries against all record types. Staff can select fields to query;  select values from picklist of possible values; select regular express ions from drop-down menu, and use a full range of Boolean operators. Administrators control staff access to tables and fields.
1.17.3.1	System administrators can create report templates that are available to front-line staff, and can be run as is or modified to the staff person's particular needs.
1.17.4.1	System provides fine-grained permissions to allow o r disallow staff to run specific reports, and/or to run ad hoc reports on specific sets of data.
1.17.5.1	System reports for each record type: current record  number, current number of records, number deleted, and number purge d. Record types include patron, bibliographic, item, order, invoice , etc.  Access to record numbers is controlled at the user/group level.
1.17.6.1	Ability to define and select four types of printers : receipt printer, standard printer, label printer, and forms printer.   All Windows printers are supported.
1.17.7.1	Ability to print to a file on the server, ftp , ema il, or printer from any part of the application. When applicable, the ability to  select record fields and control order of fields when printing.