2.2.1.1	The ELSS must  capture all data necessary for recording the fishing activities undertaken by a UK fishing vessel.
2.2.1.2	The ELSS must  output the data as an XML file for transmission to  the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system.
2.2.1.3	The ELSS data must  be validated against the UK XML/XSD before transmission from the fishing vessel.
2.2.1.4	The ELSS data must  be transmitted at the required times set out below  in Section 2.5.1.
2.2.1.5	Each ELSS data transmission will be acknowledged by  a return message from the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system.
2.3.3.1	The ELSS may  also provide the means for recording additional da ta but this must not  interfere with the data capture and submission functions as set out below.
2.4.0.1	The ELSS must  provide data capture screens for the entry of the logbook, transhipment and landing declaration data that is required to be transmitted to the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system.
2.4.0.2	The ELSS must use English (UK) localizations for al l UK Electronic Logbook features.
2.4.0.3	All dates and times must be UTC.
2.4.0.4	The Electronic Logbook data may be populated from other, existing, onboard electronic systems, e.g. a GPS for inserting the date, time and location of transmission, or for  inserting the same items at the time of capture, onboard weighing systems, existing onboard database(s) to avoid duplication of data entry.
2.4.1.1	The ELSS must  provide the ability to print out  the ELSS logbook  data (including landing declarations) using an onboard printer.
2.4.1.2	Additionally a formatted electronic print file may  be generated out of the ELSS.  This print file can  be made available to a master’s representative on-shore, e.g. by email over the onboard communications system(s).
2.4.1.3	The ELSS  must  provide a means so that electronic print files are protected so that they cannot  be modified in any way once generated and distributed.
2.4.1.4	The ELSS may provide features to facilitate other print requirements including: • Generation of hard copies of the Electronic Logbook  required when fishing in 3rd  country or Regional Fisheries waters, e.g. NAFO, Faroese and Norwegian waters. • Generation of a hard copy logsheet or landing declaration to act as a transport or takeover document. • Generation of a hard copy for providing regulatory returns for Cod and Hake effort reporting.
2.5.0.1	The ELSS must  provide Electronic Logbook data for transmission t o the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system in accordance with the frequency requirements defined below (Section 5.1).
2.5.0.2	The ELSS should  at least be able to transmit data via email, either by being included in a packaged solution with an email system or by linking with an existing on-board email service. Data is required to be emailed as  an xml document attached to an email with a standard Subject header   and sent to the email address of the UK fisheries  administrations’ ERS system.
2.5.0.3	The subject header must  consist of  a character string containing ‘ERS – ‘  prefixed to the contents of the GBRRN attribute of the Electronic Logbook data being transmitted.  The GBRRN attribute is defined in the UK XML/XSD.  The GBRRN attribute is defined uniquely as the vessels’  RSS Number appended to the current date (in YYYYMM DD format) and a 6 digit sequence number, e.g. RSSNumb er+YYYYMMDD+999999.  An example of the contents of an email subject could be ERS – A1234520090623000001.
2.5.0.4	The xml document file name should be based upon the  GBRRN attribute defined in the UK XML/XSD.  An example of this format could be A1234520090623000001.  The RSS  Number will require to be padded with trailing X’s  to ensure that it is always 6 characters in length.
2.5.0.5	Each file should have the suffix of .xml, e.g. A123 4520090623000001.xml.
2.5.0.6	All xml documents attached to emails to the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system must  be encrypted using PGP.
2.5.1.1	The ELSS must  permit the Master of the vessel to generate format ted data for transmission to the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system.
2.5.1.2	There are 2 categories of transmission, those that must be generated automatically by the ELSS and those that can be generated and transmitted under the control of the Master of the vessel.  The data transmission categories are specified below: • Automatically by the ELSS (subject to be overridden  by the vessel master) o at least on a daily basis not later than 24:00 even  when there is no catch data with the proviso that if the vessel is in port, has no fish on board and has submitted a landing declaration, transmission may be suspended subject to prior notification to the Fisheries Monitoring Cent re of the flag Member State.  Transmission must  be resumed when the vessel leaves port o immediately after the last fishing operation has been completed; o immediately on departing port; o immediately after a transhipment; immediately on completion of the Landing declaration; • Generation and transmission under the control of the Master of the vessel o before entering into port; o at the time of inspection at sea; o at the request of the UK fisheries administrations
2.5.2.1	The ELSS must  provide facilities to capture and deliver for transmission corrections to previously successfully transmitted data.
2.5.2.1.1	Data corrections must  not be transmitted piecemeal; the entire report containing one or more corrected items must be transmitted.  There is no requirement  to identify the data items that have been corrected in the generated corrected report.
2.5.2.2	All corrections must  be easily identifiable within the ELSS user interface.
2.5.2.3	The ELSS must  only permit correction messages to be generated an d sent for reports sent during a current trip up to the submission of the End of Fishing report for that voyage
2.5.3.1	The ELSS must  provide facilities to transmit deletions to previously transmitted data.
2.5.3.2	The ELSS must  only permit deletion messages to be generated and sent for reports sent during a current trip up to the End of Fishing report for that voyage.
2.5.3.3	All deletions must  be easily identifiable within the ELSS user interface.
2.5.4.1	The ELSS must  be able to receive acknowledgement (RET) messages transmitted from the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system.
2.5.4.2	The ELSS must  match each acknowledgement message with the appropriate transmitted data operation, deletion or correction report.
2.5.4.3	The ELSS must  be able to confirm that a transmission has been successfully acknowledged or display any error message should the ELSS receive a negative acknowledgement message.
2.5.5.1	Once operational the UK XML/XSD allows for a test message to be sent to the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system.  This test facility must  be used to send test transmissions to establish that the communications between the vessel and the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system are fully operational.
2.6.1	Any ELSS software updates must not  impact upon the ELSS’s ability to meet the requirements set out in this document  and other test documentation . If it does  then the product must be submitted for re-approval , and can not be deployed by fishing vessels until this is granted and the new version id is published on the UKFA website lists
2.6.2	ELSS security and access controls such that o one username/password must  be provided for the owner of each vessel o the owner is then able to set up subsidiary users such as the master of the vessel with their own username and password. o the username is required to be recorded in each rep ort completed and in each transmission made; the person who has entered the data is required to “sig n” the Electronic Logbook data stating that they are aware of the responsibilities/liabilities they are committing to in completing and / or transmitting a report. o Each copy of the ELSS installed must be provided with a unique (internal?) number that is automatically entered into each transmission to identify the instance of the ELSS from which the report has been transmitted.
2.6.3	ELSS must  only be supplied for use at sea and loaded onto an  onboard system and is not to be provided for onshore use by agents or representatives. Onshore entry is to be made through the ERS website or by use of  the offline submission methods to be promulgated by the UK fisheries administrations, e.g. an emailed spreadsheet CSV formatted file.
4.4.6.1.1	Product MUST provide data capture scree ns for the entry of the logbook, transhipment and landing declaration data that is required to be transmitted to the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system.
4.4.6.1.2	Product MUST provide a means for fisherman to manually enter required Electronic Logbook and Landing Declaration information.
4.4.6.1.3	Product MAY provide automated features for populating the Electronic Logbook information (e.g. interfacing with a GPS feature for inserting the location, date, time etc).
4.4.6.1.4	Product SHOULD provide Man-Machine Interface factors suitable for operation of the ELSS on a moving/swaying platform.
4.4.6.1.5	Product MUST use English (UK) localization  for all UK Electronic Logbook features.
4.4.6.1.6	Product MUST use UTC for all dates and times.
4.4.6.2.1	Product MUST provide a means to provide a hard copy print out of the Electronic Logbook and Landing Declaration using an onboard printer.
4.4.6.2.2	Product MAY provide an electronic copy of the Electronic Logbook or Landing Declaration to be transmitted and printed on-shore.
4.4.6.2.3	Product MUST provide a means so that electronic print files are protected so that they are not able to be  modified in any way once generated and distributed.
4.4.6.2.4	Product MAY provide features to facilitate other print requirements, including: - Generation of hard copies of the Electronic Logbook when fishing in 3rd country or Regional Fisheries waters, e.g. NAFO, Faroese and Norwegian waters. - Generation of a hard copy Electronic Logbook or landing declaration as a transport or takeover document. Generation of a hard copy for providing regulatory return for Cod and Hake effort reporting.
4.4.7.0.1	Product MUST enable  the transmission of the required reports by an on-board email system eg by generating the data for transmission as xml documents attached to email for the email system deployed to be sent to an email address of the UK fisheries administrations’ ERS system .  C
4.4.7.0.2	Product MUST use the Electronic Log book filename syntax based on the GBRRN attribute i.e. [RSSNumber][YYYYMMDD][999999]
4.4.7.0.3	Product MUST encrypt the Electronic  Logbook XML file using the UK Fisheries public PGP key when sent as an email attachment.
4.4.7.0.4	Supplier MAY provide details of other transmission methods supported by the ELSS product which should be considered by UK Fisheries for future  release of the ERS.
4.4.7.0.5	Product MUST provide a means whereby the system can track whether the submitted Electronic Logbook report has been successfully transmitted to the ERS systems and to track whether an acknowledgment has been received for each transmission. C
4.4.7.0.6	Product MUST provide for a test mod e of operation to enable the fishermen and the UK fisheries administrations to carry out test transmissions.
4.4.7.1.1	Product MUST provide a means to ensure that Electronic Logbook is transmitted to the UK ERS at least on a daily basis not later than 24:00 hours even when there is no catch data with the proviso that if the vessel is in port, has no fish on board and has submitted a landing declaration, transmission may be suspended subject to prior notification to the Fisheries Monitoring Centre of the flag Member State.  Transmission shall be resumed when the vessel leaves port .
4.4.7.1.2	Product MUST  provide a means to transmit the Electronic Logbook at the time of completion in response to a UK fishing administration request
4.4.7.1.3	Product MUST provide a means to transmit the Electronic Logbook immediately after the last fishing operation has been completed.
4.4.7.1.4	Product MUST provide a means of sending the Electronic Logbook before entering into port.
4.4.7.1.5	Product MUST provide a means of sending the Electronic Logbook immediately on departing a port.
4.4.7.1.6	Product MUST provide a means of sending the Electronic Logbook at the time of inspection at sea .
4.4.7.1.7	Product MUST provide a means of sending the Electronic Logbook at the time of events defined in Community legislation or by the UK fisheries administrations.
4.4.7.1.8	Product MUST provide a means of sending a transhipment electronic logbook data immediately after the transhipment
4.4.7.1.8	Product MUST provide a means of sending a transhipment electronic logbook data immediately on completion of a Landing Declaration
4.4.7.1.9	Product MAY use stored zone definitions  to provide an alarm for the Master to prepare a report or to gene rate a report from catch data already stored e.g. exiting zone report.
4.4.8.1	Product MUST retain all logbook reports and any corrections on the system at least until the end of each trip, i.e. on submission for transmission of the electronic landing declaration or of a transhipment report.
4.4.8.2	Software updates for a product MUST  NOT impact upon requirements described in Council Regulation (EC) No. 1966/2006 and commission Regulation (EC) No. 1077/2008
4.4.8.3	Product MUST: - provide a unique ID for the master of each vessel; - provide a means for the Master to assign a unique ID to each person with computer access; - provide a means for each unique ID to authenticate (e.g. with a password or passphrase or token) before accessing the system; -  associate an Electronic Logbook report with a unique User ID; - record a legal acknowledgement from the user entering the data for the Electronic Logbook record.
4.4.8.4	Product MUST only to be supplied for use at sea and loaded onto an onboard system and is not to be provided for onshore use by agents or representatives.