6.1.1	All or most of the KMS will be based in an approved cloud environment.
6.1.2	Software as a service hosted delivery model that is interoperable with other modules/applications.
6.1.3	System shall be web- based, conform to OPM’s IT Enterprise Architecture Vision, use OPM’s standards for the shared databases and web servers, support distributed processing, reside on an Intel platform, operate in a MS Windows environment, support OPM’s approved applications, support VPN, server-based fax pool, data encryption/PKI, Assistive Technology, interface with MS Outlook/Exchange, and common file formats.
6.1.4	System shall integrate with different functional applications such as document management, correspondence tracking, reporting tools, documenting imaging, knowledge management, IVR systems, executive dashboard, OCPL’s web publishing platform, and electronic forms.
6.1.5	System shall support e-authentication/e-signature technology according to Federal security regulations.
6.1.6	System shall support automated notifications regarding unavailability and availability.
6.1.7	System can be easily upgraded.
6.1.8	System will follow OPM Business Continuity Policies.
6.1.9	System can support expected increase in annual growth and a TBD number of users in different geographic locations.
6.1.10	System shall have a correspondence tracking system including logging, tracking, time-stamping, notification, reporting, close-out, and routing based on business rules, workflow, and prioritizing.
6.1.11	System shall have an answering request system that is secure, provides tracking, supports e-authorization/e-signature, and workflow management.
6.1.12	Twenty-four hour help desk support such as a wiki.
6.1.13	Feeds into HRIS/ERP systems.
6.1.14	ADA Section 508 compliant.
6.1.15	System is modular with ability to deploy and activate/deactivate functionality.
6.1.16	Plug-In Installation Center.
6.1.17	Fully integrated live web casting, live chat, and virtual meeting capabilities along with WebEx events.
6.1.18	All system actions shall be date/time stamped and tracked.
6.1.19	System actions are to be stored in a secured database, searchable, and can trigger alerts.
6.1.20	Records of system actions cannot be deleted.
6.1.21	Whenever appropriate, system will use look-up lists to streamline routine operations.
6.1.22	Dashboard reporting and analytics.
6.1.23	Automated reminder system by email.
6.1.24	Integration with Outlook.
6.1.25	System can prioritize requests, projects, documents, and electronic communications.
6.1.26	System can deliver alerts and documents through email clients including OPM standard handhelds.
6.1.27	System shall support inquiry management with integration to an OPM Customer Relationship Management tool.
6.2.1	User-configurable home page.
6.2.2	Role-based login capabilities that provides encryption and lost password recovery.
6.2.3	Single sign-on to all parts of the KMS.
6.2.4	Authorized users can create, edit, and delete email or in-system alerts that are automatically triggered by an event or date.
6.2.5	Only authorized users can view system actions. OPM Knowledge Management System Requirements
6.2.6	The system shall have a new user’s tutorial.
6.2.7	System shall provide standard navigation aids with the ability for users to skip through repetitive or unnecessary navigation.
6.2.8	The system will have interactive on-line help that tells the user how to use the program and knowledge-management related information with access to constantly updated online user manuals.
6.2.9	On-demand ability to fax requested documents to an authorized user’s workstation.
6.2.10	The system will allow for collaboration with external users.
6.3.1	Built-in Administrative Task wizards.
6.3.2	Ability to manage look-and-feel of entire site along with branding. Ability can be automated via business rules.
6.3.3	User administrator can create new user(s), configure permissions/roles, edit profiles, enroll users in courses, create user groups/domains, and search for users.
6.3.4	Real-time reporting on demand that appear in application and can be printed without having to be exported.
6.3.5	Standard reports and wizard-driven ability to create custom reports that can be exported to xls, csv, doc, rtf, pdf, etc.).
6.3.6	Report is filterable by domain and user groups with the ability to drill down.
6.3.7	New reports can be created, saved, and shared.
6.3.8	Administrator can mass-distribute notifications, edit content of notifications, notify specific users, manage notification events, and determine who receives what notifications.
6.3.9	Alerts can be customized by user or group level and can be sent to multiple users.
6.3.10	Variety of alert messages depending on urgency.
6.3.11	Alerts can be saved for re-use and can be stratified or sent as digests to avoid email box clutter.
6.3.12	Alerts can be protected from user modification.
6.3.13	Administrator can customize error messages.
6.4.1	Searches can be saved, modified, deleted, and shared.
6.4.2	Ability to search within a search.
6.4.3	Searches can be by full-text, keywords, and metatags.
6.4.4	The ability to search different file types (.doc, .xls, .mdb, etc.), scanned files (PDFs), and text within graphics.
6.4.5	Searches can be by index, Boolean (simple and multiple), wild card, near spell, proximity, synonyms, exact phrase, and exclusion of terms.
6.4.6	Search terms will be highlighted in the document or web page.
6.4.7	Search can be canceled at any time.
6.4.8	Search results can provide a list of hits along document object histories, progress through workflow routes, summaries of documents, or profile data of documents.
6.4.9	Searches can be limited by time frame.
6.4.10	List of most often requested results for a specified search term.
6.4.11	Searches can be exported into common document formats (.doc, .xls, .pdf, etc.).
6.5.1	Document management is available for documents in different file formats and scanned documents.
6.5.2	The system shall have a library of standard documents and templates, version control, document storage, and ability to create customized documents or sort documents based on a FOIA request.
6.5.3	The system shall use agency naming conventions, can link documents, support meta-tagging/profiling of documents, annotation of documents, package documents of different file-types together, and previewing of files in HTML format.
6.5.4	System shal l allow protection of documents as “permanent” and allow for auto -population of document/profile fields from correspondence system.
6.5.5	Documents will have their own audit trail system with alerts and notifications when actions are taken with the documents.
6.5.6	System shall be able to capture documents in various sizes and thicknesses and convert these captured documents to PDFs while also allowing for Optical Character Recognition (OCR).
6.5.7	System shall be able to modify and redact sections of scanned documents.
6.5.8	The system shall offer an ability to manage and respond to Freedom of Information Act requests.
6.5.9	The ability to freeze destruction automation for emails and documents relevant to an impending e-Discovery request.
6.5.10	The ability to forward documents to the National Archives and Records Administration electronically.
6.5.11	The ability to track retention periods for documents
6.5.12	Ability to route documents through workflow for approvals/electronic signatures
6.6.1	Able to assign learning activities to an entire domain and have LCMS functionality.
6.6.2	Integrated analytics tools, Product Library, performance/talent management tools, virtual meeting/classroom tools, and link to other training sites and resources.
6.6.3	Calendar for instructor led courses.
6.6.4	Integrate EHRI and provide support for Certifying Official Approver.
6.6.5	Develop a workflow that automates the approval process for the learner and provides ability for administrators to handle approval proposal.
6.6.6	Learners can create account without approval, change user name, access eHelp, toggle between role types, create/edit individual learning plan, modify calendar view, and view dashboard data.
6.6.7	Filter views based on learning plan.
6.6.8	SCORM and AICC compliant.
6.6.9	Ability to upload thousands of SCORM, AICC, or non-compliant courses without vendor assistance.
6.6.10	Administrator can mark course complete for learner, manage course properties, set course access by date, manage gradebook, assign instructors to courses/sessions, disable a course, assign resources, manage waitlist, set/waive course prerequisites, request/reserve rooms and equipment, edit/manage learning plans, certification/CEU tracking and test administration.
6.6.11	Learners can self-register and unregister for courses.
6.6.12	E-commerce support (with Verisign) for purchase of course(s).
6.6.13	Online access to supplemental materials.
6.6.14	Leadership and Development Program Tracking, Competency Management, Performance Management, and Informal Learning.
6.6.15	Individual portfolio storage in LMS
6.6.16	Reporting of mandatory courses attendance.
6.7.1	The CMS shall allow user creation of online groups to support communities of practice.
6.7.2	The CMS will support asynchronous discussion boards, synchronous chat sessions, document repository, RSS feeds, Twitter feeds, and notification of new system activities.
6.7.3	Users can be a member of multiple CMS groups.
6.7.4	Groups can install and activate OPM-approved modules to extend their specific online groups.
6.8.1	Consistent data entry formats (including pop-up calendar for dates), data validation, ability to cut and paste into data fields.
6.8.2	System shall allow definition of custom fields including calculated fields with customizable error messages.
6.8.3	Validating messages for deletion.
6.8.4	Fields can be locked for read-only views.
6.8.5	All electronic data shall be kept under conditions to prevent degradation, periodically spot- checked for data integrity, comply with OPM’s Record Management policies, and have a back-up in an off-site facility.
6.8.6	Personal retirement documentation must be available in hard copy up to 100 years after person is deceased.
6.8.7	Ability to exempt specific documents from regular scheduled destruction date. OPM Knowledge Management System Requirements
6.8.8	All electronic documents shall be immediately available and metatags shall be updated at least yearly by document owners.
6.8.9	Data security shall comply with all OPM and Federal security regulations.
6.8.10	Data access will be by group or user-based roles and follow OPM guidance on passwords.
6.8.11	Security access can be customized by metadata, document, database column, and/or database row to allow read, edit, or delete functions.
6.8.12	Data can be accessed securely from off-site and will apply to any information exchanged between systems and based on workflow.
6.8.13	The KMS will provide an interface for data sharing with other government agencies.
6.9.1	System shall store explicit knowledge and allow for self-service searches of a knowledge repository.
6.9.2	System shall support a cross-agency lessons learned repository.
6.8.3	System shall support a cross-agency process mapping tool and repository.
6.8.4	System shall have a searchable audio and video library devoted to capturing tacit knowledge.
6.8.5	System will record and display who posted what content and on what date/time.
6.8.6	Ability to track versions of content submissions.
6.8.7	Ability to roll-back to previous content submissions.