2.1.1.2	The OCE , under the authority  of this SE NPR , shall  ensure compliance  with this SE NPR .
2.1.1.3	For programs and projects  involving more than one Center , the lead organization  shall develop documentation to describe the hierarchy and reconciliation of Center plans implementing this NPR . The governing mission directorate determines whether a Center executes a project in a lead role or in a peer role. For Centers in peer roles, compliance  should be jointly negotiated.
2.1.1.4	For systems that contain software , the technical team  shall  ensure that software developed within NASA or acquired complies with NPR  7150.2, NASA Software Engineering Requirements.
2.1.1.5	The OCE shall be the clearinghouse for systems  engineering  policies to ensure compatibility  across NASA. In the event of differences between program  or project  offices and the OCE staff, the conflict  will ultimately reach the NASA Chief Engineer  or mission  director level. If agreement is not achieved at this level, the conflict will be brought to the NASA Administrator for resolution.
2.1.1.6	In this document, the phrase ―the Center  Directors  shall …‖ means  the roles  and responsibilities  of the Center Directors  may be further delegated within the organization  as appropriate to the scope  and scale of the system .
2.1.2.1	Center Directors oversee and manage the infrastructure for the successful execution of technical authority, support, and assurance of all programs and projects.  This Document Is Uncontrolled When Printed.
2.1.2.2	Center Directors shall perform the following activities  or delegate them to the appropriate Center organization :  a. Develop the SE NPR  Implementation  Plan per the template  in Appendix H-1 describing how the requirements  of this SE NPR  will be applied to the programs  and projects  under their cognizance or authority . b. Establish policies, procedures, and processes to execute the requirements of this SE NPR . c. Assess and take corrective actions to improve the execution of the requirements of this SE NPR. d. Perform the SENPR  Center  Survey  in accordance with Appendix H -2 for the purpose  of providing feedback on the SE NPR . The initial Center Survey will be submitted five months from the effective date of this SE NPR . Subsequent updates will be upon the request of the OCE, no earlier than nine months after the initial submission. The Center Survey will use the common survey tool in Appendix H -2 and will be submitted through the Center System Engineering Working Group  (SEWG ) representative.  e. Select appropriate standards applicable to projects under their control.
2.1.3.1	Each technical team shall execute the Center  processes  intended to implement  this SE NPR under the oversight  of the Center Director s in accordance with the SEMP . The makeup and organization of each technical team is the responsibility of each Center or program  and includes the personnel required to implement the project .
2.2.1.2	The Center Directors  shall submit their SE NPR  Implementation  Plan to the OCE within three months after the effective date of this NPR . The plan will be updated as required. The SE NPR Implementation Plan will be provided to mission directorates for review  and comment. Each SE NPR Implementation Plan will be approved  by the OCE and include the applicable documents employed by the individual Centers. These Center documents may include Center procedural requirements, work  instructions, standards, and rules, as well as other Center -unique documentation. The SE NPR is a requirements document that specifies what needs to  be accomplished at an Agency  level. There will also be a body of knowledge developed to assist in the implementation of the NPR. This body of knowledge will include an updated NASA Systems Engineering Handbook  (SP-6105 ) as well as best practices , standards , and templates.
2.2.1.3	The Center  Director s shall develop and document  in the SE NPR  Implementation  Plan how the particular Center will assess  compliance  to the SENPR  and provide regular updates to the OCE . In addition, the OCE will conduct periodic updates at the Centers to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the SE NPR to facilitate updating the NPR.
2.3.1.1	The appropriate DGA  shall  have responsibility to approve or disapprove any SE NPR requirement  that is either tailored  or waived.
2.3.1.2	The amount of detail, formality , and rigor required for the implementation of this SE NPR ’s requirements  is tailorable based on the size and complexity  of each project  and acceptable risk, subject to approval  by the project manager  and the  DGA . Critical project considerations  (e.g., public safety , security, litigation exposures) may preclude tailoring out required process activities , regardless of cost , manpower available , or other considerations .
2.3.1.3	A waiver is a documented agreement intentionally releasing a program or project  from meeting a requirement . Waivers are required to release a program or project from meeting a requirement in the execution of the processes described in this SE NPR .
3.2.1.1	The Center Directors  or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation , for the definition of stakeholder expectations  for the applicable WBS  model .
3.2.1.2	The stakeholder expectations definition  process  is used to elicit and define use cases, scenarios, operational concepts, and stakeholder expectations for the applicable product -line life-cycle  phases  and WBS  model . This includes requirements  for: (a) operational end product s and life-cycle -enabling product s of the WBS model ; (b) expected skills  and capabilities of operators or users; (c) expected number of simultaneous users, (d) system  and human performance criteria , (e) technical authority , standards, regulations , and laws; ( f) factors such as safety , quality, security, context of use by humans, reliability , availability, maintainability, electromagnetic compatibility , interoperability , testability, transportability, supportability , usability,  and disposability; and ( g) local management constraints  on how work  will be done (e.g., operating procedures). The baselined stakeholder expectations are used for validation  of the WBS model end product during product realization.
3.2.2.1	The Center Director s or designees  shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for definition of the technical requirements from the set of agreed upon  stakeholder  expectations  for the applicable WBS model .
3.2.2.2	The technical requirements definition  process  is used to transform the baselined  stakeholder  expectations  into unique, quantitative, and measurable technical requirements expressed as ―shall  statements that can be used for defining a design  solution  for the WBS  model  end product  and related enabling product s.
3.2.3.1	The Center Director s or designees  shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for logical decomposition  of the validated technical requirements of the applicable WBS  model .
3.2.3.2	The logical decomposition process is used to improve understanding of the defined technical requirements  and the relationships among the requirements (e.g., functional, behavioral, and temporal) and to transform the defined set  of technical requirements into a set of logical decomposition models and their associated set of derived technical requirements for input  to the design  solution  definition process .
3.2.4.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for designing product  solution definitions within the applicable WBS  model that satisfy the derived technical requirements.
3.2.4.2	The design solution  definition  process  is used to translate the outputs  of the logical decomposition  process into a design solution definition that is in a form consistent with the product -line life-cycle  phase  and WBS  model  location in the system  structure  and that will satisfy phase exit criteria . This includes transforming the defined logical decomposition models and their associated sets of derived technical requirements into alternative solutions , then analyzing each alternative to be able to select a preferred alternative , and fully defining that alternative into a final design solution definition that will satisfy the technical requirements. These design solution definitions will be used for generating end product s either by using the product implementation process or product integration process  as a function of the position of the WBS model in the system structure and whether there are additional subsystems of the end product that need to be defined. The output definitions from the design solution (end product specifications) will be used for conducting product verification .
3.2.5.1	The Center Director s or designees shall establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for implementation  of a design  solution  definition by making, buying , or reusing an end product  of the applicable WBS  model .
3.2.5.2	The product implementation  process is used to generate a specified product of a WBS  model  through buying, making , or reusing in a form consistent with the product -line life-cycle  phase  exit criteria  and that satisfies the design  solution  definition  specified requirements  (e.g., drawings, specifications ).
3.2.6.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation for the integration  of lower  level products  into an end product  of the applicable WBS  model  in accordance with its design  solution  definition.
3.2.6.2	The product integration process is used to transform the design solution definition  into the desired end product  of the WBS  model  through assembly and integration of lower level , validated end products  in a form consistent with the product-line life-cycle  phase  exit criteria  and that satisfies the design solution definition requirements  (e.g., drawings, specifications ).
3.2.7.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for verification  of end product s generated by the product implementation  process or product integration process  against their design  solution  definitions.
3.2.7.2	The product verification  process is used to demonstrate that an end product  generated from product implementation  or product integration conforms to its design  solution  definition  requirements  as a function of the product -line life-cycle  phase  and the location of the WBS  model  end product in the system  structure . Special attention is given to demonstrating satisfaction of the measures of performance (MOPs) defined for each measure of effectiveness  (MOE s) during conduct of the technical requirements definition process .
3.2.8.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for validation  of end product s generated by the product implementation  process or product integration process  against their stakeholder  expectations .
3.2.8.2	The product  validation  process is used to confirm that a verified end product  generated by product implementation  or pro duct integration  fulfills (satisfies) its intended use when placed in its intended environment  and to ensure that any anomalies discovered during validation are appropriately resolved prior to delivery of the product  (if validation is done by the supplier of the product) or prior to integration with other products into a higher -level assembled product (if validation is done by the receiver of the product). The validation is done against the set of baselined stakeholder expectations . Special attention should be given to demonstrating satisfaction  of the MOEs identified during conduct of the stakeholder expectations definition  process . The type of product validation is a function of the form of the product and product -line life-cycle  phase  and in accordance with an applicable customer  agreement .
3.2.9.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for transitioning end product s to the next higher level WBS -model  customer  or user.
3.2.9.2	The product transition  process  is used to transition  a verified and validated end product that has been generated by product implementation  or product integration  to the customer  at the next level in the system  structure  for integration into an end product or, for the top level end product, transitioned to the intended end user. The form of the product transitioned will be a function of the product -line life-cycle phase  exit criteria  and the location within the system structure of the WBS  model  in which the end product exits.
3.2.10.1	The Center Directors or designers shall establish and maintain  a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for planning the technical effort.
3.2.10.2	The technical planning process is used to plan for the application  and management of each common technical process and to identify, define , and plan the technical effort applicable to the product -line life-cycle  phase  for WBS  model  location within the system  structure  and to meet project  objectives and product -line life-cycle  phase exit criteria . A key document generated by this process is the SEMP. (See Chapter 6.)
3.2.11.1	The Center Directors  or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for management of requirements defined and baselined  during the application  of the system  design  processes .
3.2.11.2	The requirements management  process is used to: (a) manage  the product  requirements identified, baselined , and used in the definition  of the WBS  model  products duri ng system  design ; (b) provide bidirectional traceability back to the top WBS model requirements ; and (c) manage the changes to established requirement baselines over the life cycle  of the system products.
3.2.12.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for management of the interfaces defined and generate d during the application  of the system  design  processes .
3.2.12.2	The interface management process is used to : (a) establish  and use formal interface management to assist in controlling system  product  development  efforts when the efforts are divided between Government  programs , contractors , and/or geographically diverse technical teams  within the same program or project  and (b) maintain interface definition  and compliance among the end product s and enabling product s that compose the system , as well as with other systems with which the end products and enabling products must interoperate .
3.2.13.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation , for management of the technical risk identified during the technical effort. (NPR 8000.4 , Agency Risk Management Procedural Requirements , is to be used as a source document  for defining this process , and NPR 8705.5, Probabilistic Risk Assessment (PRA) Procedures for NASA Programs  and Projects , provides one means of identifying  and assessing technical risk. )
3.2.13.2	The technical risk management process is used to examine on a continuing basis the risks  of technical deviations from the project  plan and identify potential technical problems before they occur so that risk -handling activities  can be planned and invoked as needed across the life of the product  or project to mitigate impacts on achieving product -line life-cycle  phase  exit criteria  and meeting technical objectives.
3.2.14.1	The Center Director s or designees shall establish and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for configuration  management.
3.2.14.2	The configuration  management  process for end product s, enabling product s, and other work  products placed under configuration control  is used to: (a) identify the configuration of the product or work product at various points in time ; (b) systematically control changes to the configuration of the product or work product ; (c) maintain  the integrity and traceability of the configuration of the product or work product throughout its life ; and (d) preserve the records of the product or end product configuration throughout its life cycle , dispositioning them in accordance with NPR  1441.1 , NASA Records Retention Schedules .
3.2.15.1	The Center Director s or designees shall establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for management of the technical data generated and used in the technical effort.
3.2.15.2	The technical data management process  is used to: (a) provide the basis for identifying  and controlling data requirements ; (b) responsively and economically acquire, access, and distribute data needed to develop, manage, operate , and support system  products  over their product -line life; (c) manage and disposition data as records;  (d) analyze data use; (e) if any of the technical effort is performed by an external contractor , obtain technical data feedback for managing  the contracted technical effort ; and ( f) assess  the collection of appropriate technical data and information.
3.2.16.1	The Center Director s or designees shall establish and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for maki ng assessments of the progress of planned technical effort and progress toward requirements satisfaction .
3.2.16.2	The technical assessment process is used to help monitor progress of the technical effort and provide status information for support of the system  design , product  realization, and technical management processes .
3.2.17.1	The Center Director s or designees shall  establish  and maintain a process  to include activities , requirements , guidelines , and documentation, for making technical decisions .
3.2.17.2	The decision analysis process, including data collection (e.g., engineering performance, quality, and reliability data) , is used to help evaluate  technical decision issues, technical alternatives, and their uncertainties to support decision  making . This process is used throughout technical management, system design , and  product  realization processes  to evaluate the impact of decisions on performance, cost , schedule , and technical risk.
4.2.1	The assigned NASA technical team shall  prepare  a SEMP  that covers the periods before contract  award , during contract performance , and upon contract completion in accordance with content contained in the annotated outline in Appendix D.
4.2.2	The assigned technical team shall use common technical processes , as implemented by the Center 's documentation, to establish  the technical inputs  to the Request for Proposal  (RFP ) appropriate for the product to be developed , including product  requirements  and Statement of Work  tasks ..
4.2.3	The technical team shall determine the technical work  products  to be delivered by the offeror or contractor , to include a contractor SEMP  that specifies their systems  engineering  approach  for requirements  development ; technical solution definition; design  realization ; product evaluation ; product transition ; and technical planning, control , assessment , and decision analysis .
4.2.4	The technical team shall provide to the contracting officer, for inclusion in the RFP, the requirements  for technical oversight  activities planned in the NASA SEMP . (Care should be taken that no requirements or solicitation information is divulged prior to the release of the solicitation by the cognizant contracting officer.)
4.2.5	The technical team shall  participate in the evaluation  of offeror proposals following applicable NASA and Center  source selection procedures.
4.3.1	The assigned technical team, under the authority  of the cognizant contracting  officer , shall  perform the technical oversight  activities  established in the NASA SEMP .
4.4.1	The assigned technical team shall  participate in scheduled milestone  reviews  to finalize Government acceptance of the deliverables .
4.4.2	The assigned technical team shall participate in product  transition  to the customer  and/or disposal  as defined in the NASA SEMP .
5.2.1.1	For each product line (BAR, ATD , IP, and FS&GS ), technical efforts are monitored throughout  the life cycle  to ensure that the technical goals  of the project  are being achieved  and that the technical direction of the project is appropriate.
5.2.1.2	Technical teams shall monitor technical effort through periodic technical reviews.
5.2.1.3	A technical review is an evaluation of the project , or element thereof, by a knowledgeable group  for the purposes of:  a. Assessing  the status of and progress toward accomplishing the planned activities . b. Validating the technical tradeoffs explored and design solution s proposed. c. Identifying technical weaknesses or marginal design and potential problems (risks) and recommending improvements and corrective actions.  d. Making judgments on the activities’ readiness  for the follow -on events , including additional future evaluation  milestones  to improve the likelihood of a successful outcome . e. Making assessments and recommendations to the project team, Center, and Agency management.  f. Providing a historical record that can be referenced of decisions that were made during these formal reviews. g. Assessing the technical risk status and current risk profile.
5.2.1.5	Technical reviews are used to evaluate the status of the technical progress and are supported by other equivalent technical discipline activities, including safety  reviews .
5.2.1.6	The technical team shall  ensure that system  aspects represented or implemented in software  are included in all technical review s to demonstrate that project  technical goals  and progress are being achieved and that all NPR  7150.2 software review requirements are implemented.
5.2.2.1	The technical team shall develop and document plans for technical reviews for us e in the project planning process. The technical review schedule, as documented in the SEMP, will be reflected in the overall project plan described in NPR 7120.5.  The results of each technical review will be used to update the technical review plan as part of the SEMP update process. The review plans, data, and results should be maintained and dispositioned as Federal records.
5.3.1.1	The minimum set of required technical review s applies  to all current and future NASA FS&GS  and IP  programs  and projects  as defined  in section P .2 of this document  (including spacecraft, launch vehicles, instruments developed for space flight programs and projects, designated research and technology development s to be incorporated by space flight programs and projects, critical technical facilities  specifically  developed or significantly modified for space flight systems , information systems  and technology that support space flight programs and projects, and ground systems that are in direct  support of space flight operations ). Between each life-cycle phase , a program or project goes through KDPs  preceded by one or more reviews  that enable a disciplined approach  to assessing programs ’ and projects ’ readiness  to progress to the next phase . Allowances are made within a phase for the differences between human and robotic FS&GS projects. Additional description of technical reviews is provided in  the NASA Systems Engineering  Handbook  (SP-6105).  (For more information on program and project life cycles and management reviews, see the appropriate NPR , e.g. , NPR 7120.5.)
5.3.1.2	The technical team shall  address the entrance and success criteria listed in Appendix G for applicability to the respective reviews .
5.3.1.3	The technical team shall execute the required Program /System Requirements Review  (P/SRR) and Program Approval  Review  (PAR) in accordance with the review  entry and success criteria  defined in tables G -1 and G -2 of Appendix G.
5.3.1.4	The technical team shall execute the required program technical review s in accordance with the following timeline: P/SRR  before KDP  0 and PAR  before KDP 1.
5.3.1.5	For human FS&GS  projects , the technical team  shall  execute the following required minimum set of technical review s in accordance with the review  entry and success criteria  defined in tables G -3, G-4, G-6, G-7, G-8, and G-10 through G-18 of Appendix G : Mission Concept Review  (MCR ), System  Requirements Review  (SRR) , System Definition Review (SDR), Preliminary Design  Review (PDR), Critical Design Review  (CDR ), System Integration Review  (SIR ), Test Readiness Review  (TRR ), System Acceptance Review  (SAR ), Operational Readiness Review  (ORR ), Flight Readiness Review  (FRR ), Post-Launch Assessment Review  (PLAR ), Critical Event Readiness Review (CERR ), Post-Flight Assessment Review  (PFAR ), and Decommissioning Review  (DR). (For more information on program and project life cycles  and management reviews , see the appropriate NPR , e.g., NPR 7120.5.)
5.3.1.6	For robotic  FS&GS  projects , the technical  team  shall  execute  and document  the following minimum required technical review s: the MCR , SRR , Mission Definition Review (MDR ), PDR, CDR , SIR , TRR , ORR , FRR , PLAR , CERR , and DR  in accordance with the review  entry and success criteria  given in tables G -3, G-4, G-5, G-7, G-8, G-10, G -11, G -13 through G -16, and  G-18 of Appendix G . Robotic projects can combine the SRR and MDR based on size and level of risk. If the two reviews are conducted separately, Table G -4 will be used for the SRR and Table G -5 will be used for the MDR. If the two reviews are combined, the entrance and success criteria for both SRR and MDR will be combined for this single review.
5.3.1.7	The technical team shall  also execute a Production Readiness Review  (PRR ) as an additional technical review  for both human and robotic FS&GS  projects  developing or acquiring multiple or similar systems  greater than three (or as  determined by the project) in accordance with the review  entry and success criteria  defined in Table G -9 of Appendix G. Any project producing end product s with three or less units will still perform the required CDR. The CDR will include production considerations when a PRR is not performed.
5.3.1.8	The technical team shall execute the required FS&GS  project  technical review s in accordance with the following timelines:  a. MCR  prior to KDP  A. b. Human FS&GS  project  SRR prior to SDR and robotic missions  SRR and MDR  prior to KDP  B. c. Human FS&GS  project  SDR prior to KDP  B. d. PDR  prior to KDP  C. e. CDR  prior to starting fabrication of system  end product s and SIR . f. PRR prior to starting fabrication of system end product s for projects requiring multiple units.  g. SIR prior to KDP D. h. TRR prior to starting product  verification  and product validation  testing . i. Human FS&GS project  SAR  after completion of KDP  D. j. ORR  after SAR  or KDP  D and before FRR . k. FRR prior to KDP  E. l. PLAR  after system  end product  launch.  m. CERR after PLAR and before KDP  F. n. Human FS&GS  project  PFAR  at end of flight  and before KDP  F. o. DR after KDP  F.
5.3.1.9	The assigned technical team shall accomplish the monitoring function for flight -related  ATD  projects  using appropriately defined and conducted  periodic  technical  review s (PTR s) and continuation reviews  (CRs) . (See Figure 5-3.)
5.3.1.10	The assigned technical team shall  accomplish the monitoring function for IPs using PTR and SAR . (See Figure 5-3.)
5.3.1.11	Reviews are considered complete when the following are accomplished:  a. Agreement  exists for the disposition of all Review Item Discrepancies  (RID s) and Request for Actions  (RFA ).  b. The review board report and minutes are complete and distributed.  c. Agreement exists on a plan  to address the issues and concerns in the review  board’s report.  d. Agreement exists on a plan for addressing the actions identified out of the review. e. Liens against the review  results  are closed, or an adequate and timely plan  exists for their closure.  f. Differences of opinion between the project under review and the review board(s) have been resolved, or a timely plan  exists to resolve  the issues.  g. A report is given by the review board chairperson to the appropriate management and governing program  management committees (PMCs ) charged with oversight  of the project . h. Appropriate procedures and controls are instituted to ensure that all actions from reviews  are followed and verified through implementation  to closure.
6.2.1	Working with the program /project manager , the technical team  shall  determine the appropriate level within the system  structure  at which SEMPs are developed, taking into account factors such as number and complexity  of interfaces, operating environments , and risk factors.
6.2.2	The technical team shall baseline  the SEMP  per the Center ’s Implementation  Plan incorporating  the content of Appendix D, Systems  Engineering  Management Plan, prior to completion of Phase  A in the program  life cycle  or the equivalent milestone . At the discretion of the PM and the DGA, for a small project the material in the SEMP can be placed in the project plan’s technical summary and the annotated outline in Appendix D used as a topic guide. As changes occur, the SEMP will be updated by the technical team, reviewed and concurred with by the PM, and presented at subsequent milestone reviews  or their equivalent.
6.2.3	The DGA shall  review  and approve or disapprove the SEMP  at each major milestone  review or its equivalent.
6.2.4	The assigned technical team shall establish  the initial SEMP  early in the Formulation phase and update it as necessary to reflect changes in scope  or improved technical development .
6.2.5	The technical team shall ensure that any technical plans and discipline plans describe how the technical activities  covered in the plans are consistent with the SEMP  and are accomplished as fully integrated  parts of the technical effort.
6.2.6	The technical team shall  ensure  that the project ’s software  development /management plan describes how the software activities  are consistent with the S EMP and are accomplished as fully integrated  parts of the technical effort.  The required content of the project’s software development/management plan is provided in NPR 7150.2 , dependent upon the classification of software items
6.2.7	The technical team shall establish Technical Performance Measures (TPMs) for the project that track/describe the current state versus plan.
6.2.7.1	The Technical Team shall report the TPMs to the program/project manager on an agreed-to reporting interval.
6.2.7.2	The set of TPMs shall include the following leading indicators:  a.  Mass Margins for projects involving hardware. b.  Power Margins for projects that are powered. c.  Closure of review action documentation (Request s for Action, Review Item Discrepancies, and/or Action Items as established by the project) for all hardware and software projects.