3.4.1.1	An Accommodation Applicant should  only be required to register once with  the University in order to apply for  Admission to a Programme of Study  and to stay in a University Residence.  A single ID should be used to access  both Applications and eventually be  used as their Student ID once they  are accepted into a Programme.
3.4.2.1	Personal and Contact Details required  for the Accommodation Application  should be created and maintained in  the IMS. A user should be able to  access the IMS to amend these details  directly from an Application within  UAM.
3.4.3.1	The UAM system should be updated  automatically when a person (who is  either an Applicant, a current University Accommodation resident or  who has been offered a place in a  University residence) changes or  updates their personal or contact  details in the IMS.
3.4.4.1	The UAM system should be updated  automatically when a person’s (who is  either an Applicant, a current University Accommodation resident or  who has been offered a place in a  University residence) affiliations with  the university change.
3.4.5	A report is required to identify persons  with current accommodation applications who are not current  students and whose applications for  admission have been declined.
3.4.6	A report is required to identify current  University residents who are no longer  active students (or were never  enrolled).
3.4.7	Photos from a student’s id card are  required to be sent to UAM when they  are added or updated in the ID card  system.
3.4.8	Secondary School details and NCEA  results (from Year 12 onwards) should  be sourced from SAP data (and  populated in the UAM database) if this  available at the time an applicant  completes the form – and we have  received their NSN.
3.4.9	Scholarship information should be  pre-populated in the UAM database,  from SAP, if it exists at the time an  applicant completes the form.
3.4.10	Hard Copy Applications – for those  students that submit a hard-copy  application, Accommodation staff  require the ability to create user  accounts in the IMS (on their behalf). They can then manually enter the IMS  ID into UAM and then push the  relevant person message from the  IMS.
3.4.11	Non-Student Applications – the  business require the ability to process  applications for non-students also.  These persons will still require the  same IMS registration (entered  manually by UAM staff) and be pushed  from the IMS in the same way as is  the case with manually entered  student applicants.
3.7.1.1	With the change to have users sign into the UAM Application using their IMS credentials, the sign-on security within UAM will have to be re-written to accept the  IMS ID and passwords. It will be no less secure than it is currently and there should  be no need for any change to roles and security profiles within UAM. This will be  detailed as part of technical specification.
3.7.2.1	A change to master login information and personal and contact data within the IMS adds extra complexity and with it, potential for performance degradation. Any web  service or messaging from the IMS to UAM should happen in near-real time, as it  does with similar interfaces between the IMS and the AfUE or IMS and SAP. The  users should not notice that they are in fact in another system and any transferring  between the two should be seamless.
3.7.3.1	Training will be required for UAM staff in regards to how the IMS should be used by  Accommodation Applicants. There may be additional affiliation functionality within  UAM that staff need to be trained in also.
3.7.4.1	This specification will provide the necessary information for staff to understand any  new functionality and how the Application process will work once integrated with the  IMS.
3.7.5.1	The UAM system is currently and will continue to be supported by SMS. The  Integration with the IMS will be supported by IT Service.