3.1.1	The Project Development system will interface with the MRS system.  This system is currently in use by ROW to capture varied data about all projects.  It uses an ORACLE database and the MRS system will be a primary source and recipient of information with the Project Development system.
3.2.0	This system will function as a project tracking and development aid to the Department.  This system will track project development from initial introduction to the system in the design plan format, through the process towards certification for construction.  A project enters the system in the pre-construction starter kit format and exits once all requirements have been satisfied for construction certification.
3.2.1.1.1	The system will notify the ROW Engineering Supervisor upon receipt of a new starter kit from the Design Project Manager.  This will initiate a new project development cycle within the system.
3.2.1.2.1	The system will prompt the ROW Chief to assign the Project Agent, and the ROW Engineering Supervisor to assign the Plan Preparation Staff.  The ROW Chief may also assign the Project Team Members at this time.
3.2.1.3.1	The ROW Chief initiates the database record for the project.
3.2.1.4.1	The system will prompt the assigned ROW Engineer to review the starter kit for completeness.  The system will provide a detailed checklist to determine that all necessary elements of the starter kit are in place.  If the list is incomplete, it is submitted to the Design Project Manager to provide the missing information.
3.2.1.4.2	The system will send a request to Survey to determine if a Level 1 survey for the project is currently available.  If it is not available or it is insufficient, a request is submitted to Survey to perform or augment the Level 1 survey.  The system will help prepare a Level 1 survey request and submit it to the Survey Manager.  The Level 1 survey work is scheduled and the work is received and entered into the system.  The system will then notify the ROW Engineer to review the Level 1 survey for completeness.
3.2.1.4.3	Once the Level 1 survey is complete, the ROW Engineer notifies the Engineer Supervisor to proceed.  The system will send a notice to the Engineer Supervisor from the ROW Engineer to continue.
3.2.1.5.1	The ROW Engineering Supervisor assigns the duties to the Title section.  The ROW Engineering Supervisor determines which properties are affected.
3.2.1.6.1	The ROW Engineering Supervisor determines the scope, schedule, and budget for the project.  The ROW Engineering Supervisor transmits scope, schedule, and budget to the Design Project Manager.  The ROW Engineering Supervisor determines if there are adequate funds to proceed.  If funds are inadequate, the system will notify the Design Project Manager of the deficiency.
3.2.1.7.1	The ROW Engineering Supervisor determines if there is Department staff available to develop the ROW title and plans.  The system Team Interface (Team Schedule) will indicate which staff member is currently working on projects and who is available.  The ROW Engineering Supervisor determines if the available staff is able to perform a detailed research on schedule.  If staff is not available, the ROW Engineering Supervisor decides whether to use an external contractor.  The ROW Engineering Supervisor must complete external consultant procurement and a request is sent to Procurement.
3.2.1.8.1	The Verification of Contractor Work function allows the ROW Engineer to register their acceptance of the Contractors work or what the work is lacking.  If the work is lacking, it is returned to the Contractor to be corrected and resubmitted.
3.2.1.9.1	Research entails any research that the Contractor may have to perform to fulfill their contract with the state (i.e. Title Research).
3.2.1.10.1	The Progress Reports are a means of letting the ROW Engineer know the status of a contractor during the project.
3.2.1.11.1	The ROW Corridor is the buffer on either side of the roadway or airport being designed and includes everything within and between the boundaries.
3.2.1.12.1	The Base Map and Survey Report are two products of an external ROW Contractor or performed by assigned ROW Staff.  The Base Map is a geographical map of the ROW Corridor.  The Survey Report is a report of the surveyed area.
3.2.1.13.1	The Base Mapping function provides the ROW Engineer the ability to enter the computation for the base maps and for the ROW Engineering Supervisor to enter a determination on whether Plan Preparation will record the base maps.
3.2.1.14.1	The Preliminary Parcel Design is the first cut at the parcels that are in the ROW and need to be acquired.  This function may be performed by a contractor or the ROW Engineer.
3.2.1.15.1	The Parcel Design function provides the ability for the ROW Engineer or Contractor to enter the evaluation of the title report, request and perform a level 2 survey, assign parcel numbers, and finalize the Parcel Design.
3.2.1.16.1	The Finalize ROW Plans function allows the ROW Engineer to compute the dimensions of the parcels and to enter the easement data.  In addition, if a Contractor did the ROW Plans, it allows the ROW Engineer to enter an acceptance or reasons for not accepting the ROW plans from the Contractor.
3.2.1.17.1	The Check for Changes function provides the ROW Engineer a means to communicate with the Design Project Manager to check for any design changes.
3.2.1.18.1	The ROW Engineering Estimate allows the ROW Engineering Supervisor to enter cost estimates for the Plan Preparation work and notifies Pre-Audit that the estimate is entered.
3.2.1.19.1	The Obtain Funding function provides easy access to the system to determine if the phase 3 funding has been authorized.
3.2.1.20	The Draw Parcel Plats function provides the ROW Engineer with the means to enter the completion date of the Parcel plats.  In addition, this function provides a method for the ROW Engineer to enter an acceptance of a Contractor's Parcel Plats.
3.2.1.21	The Condemnation function allows the ROW Engineer the ability to extract reports from the system for condemnations.  This function also provides the ROW Engineering Supervisor with the ability to turn on the AG interface.
3.2.1.22	The Monumentation function provides a checklist of steps required for determining if monumentation is required and the process for monumentation.
3.2.1.23	The Certify Project function provides the ROW Engineer with a method to enter and rectify any discrepancies.  This function also provides a method for the ROW Engineering Supervisor to enter a recommendation into the system and for the ROW Chief to enter a decision to certify the project or not certify the project.
3.2.1.24	The ROW Plan Finalization function provides the ROW Engineering Supervisor a method to enter an approval of the ROW Plans and to notify of the plan completion to the Design Project Manager.  This function also provides the ROW Engineer a method to enter and rectify any construction concerns.  This function includes a checklist for possible borough/municipal/city requirements and a means
3.2.2.1.1	The Design Project Manager or ROW Engineer initiates this system interface by requesting a project survey.  The ROW Engineer can request for Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 surveys.
3.2.2.2.1	The Record of Survey lists all requests that have been made of the Survey Manager for assignment.  The Survey Manager / Design Project Manager / ROW Engineer may assign requests to a Survey Contractor.
3.2.2.3.1	Survey notifies property owners of survey via letter.  The system will prompt Survey for notification and the system will generate the letter.  The Survey staff
3.2.3.1.1	The ROW Engineering Supervisor assigns the project to Title.  Title performs preliminary research on land title status.  Title acquires and reviews MTP's, USS, 14(c), rect., plats, subdivision plats, surveys, and quad maps.
3.2.3.2.1	Either external contractors input preliminary title information directly into the system or they submit a hardcopy to the Department, which must then be entered into the system by ROW staff.  A Title representative or  contractor/consultant is assigned to the project, conducts a detailed title search, and enters any remaining data into the database.
3.2.3.3.1	Title generates a list of owners within the ROW project limits and transmits it via the system to the ROW Engineering Supervisor, Design Project Manager, and Survey.
3.2.3.4.1	If the ROW Engineering Supervisor does not procure an external contractor, Title is requested to provide a detailed research of the property.  This detailed research is pre and post parcel definition.
3.2.3.5.1	Title performs procurement of a Title Contractor.  Title orders the research and receives the research from the Title Contractor.
3.2.3.6.1	Title researches municipal/local government tax records, researches subscription databases, recorder's office submission, title company information, DOT records, BLM/DNR/BIA/CED/Forest Service records.
3.2.3.7.1	Title orders and receives a title report from Department Staff or an external title company.
3.2.3.8.1	Title has the base maps put on record with the Recorder's Office.
3.2.4.1.1	The Appraisal Supervisor receives the ROW plans from the ROW Engineering Supervisor for review.  The system will notify the Appraisal Supervisor of receipt of the project plans.  The system will provide a checklist for the Appraisal Supervisor to determine if the ROW plans are complete.
3.2.4.2.1	The Appraisal Supervisor determines if the plans are sufficient to initiate appraisal plans.  The system will provide a checklist for the Supervisor.  If the plans are not sufficient, the Appraisal Supervisor submits request for an update.
3.2.4.3.1	This function enables the Appraisal Supervisor to determine which staff members are available and assign them to a particular project.
3.2.4.4.1	Assignment is given for the project and it is determined if special expertise is needed.  An on-site inspection is performed with the current ROW plans to determine any appraisal problems.  Appraisal gathers the preliminary market data and determines whether to do a value estimate or a narrative appraisal report.  Appraisal identifies the fund coding and estimates completion periods.  This data is captured by the system.
3.2.4.5.1	This function allows the Appraisal Supervisor to determine if the parcel can be valued as a value estimate.  If the parcel can be valued as a value estimate, the Appraisal Supervisor uses this function to assign the project to staff.  The appraisal staff performs the value estimate and submits it via the system to the ROW Chief.
3.2.4.6.1	This function enables the Appraisal Supervisor to determine if the project has received FHWA Authority to Appraise and Acquire.  This initiates Phase 3 ROW work.  In the case of an Airport, the Department funds the appraisal that is then submitted to FAA for approval.
3.2.4.7.1	This function provides parcel information to Appraisal from Plan Prep.
3.2.4.8.1	Staff or Contractor completes the value estimate and submits it to Appraisal Supervisor for review.  The value estimate is then forwarded to the ROW Chief for approval to negotiate.
3.2.4.9.1	This function allows the Appraisal Supervisor to determine through the system which resources are available.  This function determines if the available staff has the expertise to perform the appraisal and whether the present staff workload will allow the additional work
3.2.4.10.1	If the present Appraisal staff does not have the availability for the project, then the request for a Professional Service Agreement (PSA) is entered into the system for procurement of a contractor.  It is determined if a contract amendment is needed.  If so, a fee quote is requested and received.  An amendment to the Professional Services Contract is drafted and signed by the Contractor.  Notice to Proceed (NTP) is then issued to the Contractor.  Notice to proceed (NTP) cannot be issued without the Authority to Appraise and Acquire (including advanced acquisition parcels).  However, the appraisal plan can be formulated in anticipation of the Federal Authority to Proceed (ATP).
3.2.4.10.2	Consultant performs the work and produces an appraisal or specialty report.  The Appraisal Supervisor receives the appraisal or specialty report and determines if the Contractor has met the contract requirements.
3.2.4.11.1	Staff or Contractor performs the appraisal and produces an appraisal report in the system.
3.2.4.12.1	If the appraisal needs a specialty report for additional appraisal work, i.e. contamination removal at site, etc., then Appraisal performs the specialty report.
3.2.4.13.1	If the specialty report is part of the staff or Contractor appraisal, the Appraisal Supervisor determines if the report meets the assignment.  If it does not meet requirements, the system sends a request back for revision.
3.2.4.14.1	This function allows the Appraisal Supervisor to review the Specialty Report.
3.2.4.15.1	Headquarters Appraisal review performs a desk review or the certification plans. HQ reviews all reports and determines if the report meets state appraisal standards (USPAP).  Headquarters determines if items satisfy the report per contract.  HQ identifies any critical parcels and ensures that the report considers any special legal concerns.  This function provides a detailed checklist for desk review by HQ.
3.2.4.16.1	Headquarters Appraisal Review performs a field review and reviews any available reports from the same area (outside of DOT).  HQ Appraisal reviews area and region values.  HQ reviews and checks Department approved data and values for consistency.  This function provides a detailed checklist for field review by HQ.
3.2.4.17.1	Headquarters determines if corrections are needed on appraisal reports and determines the need for reconsideration of additional information.  HQ provides appraiser additional data.
3.2.4.18.1	Headquarters accepts appraisal report for Determination of Just Compensation based on value.  Determines if a second appraisal is necessary, or if HQ can make corrections or write an independent valuation if not accepted.
3.2.4.19.1	This function allows the Regional ROW Chief/Project Agent to determine if the value estimate or the just compensation is approved for negotiations.
3.2.4.20.1	The Appraisal Supervisor/Project Agent determines if it is an FAA project.  If so, the Appraisal Supervisor/Project Agent submits appraisal to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for review.
3.2.5.1.1	The Receive Funding function informs the Acquisition Supervisor/Project Agent that the Department received the Phase 3 Funding for an FHWA project.
3.2.5.2.1	The Assign Staff function allows the Acquisition Supervisor to assign tasks and due dates to the Acquisition Staff via the Team Administration Interface.
3.2.5.3.1	The Review Data function provides the Acquisition Supervisor/Project Agent with a checklist to determine that there is enough data to proceed with acquiring the properties.  Specifically, if all of the ROW Plans, TCP's and/or Right of Entry/Title reports are present, then acquisition will proceed.  This function provides a checklist of what data is required and how to get the data if it is missing.
3.2.5.4.1	The Check for Variance function provides the Acquisition Supervisor/Project Agent with a checklist to determine if there are any Municipal variances and prompts the Acquisition Supervisor with  steps to satisfy the Municipal variance.  This function provides the forms for applying for the Municipal variance.
3.2.5.5.1	The Resolve Issues function prompts the Acquisition Supervisor/Project Agent to determine if there are any issues preventing the undertaking of acquisition activity.  If there are issues, the Acquisition Supervisor/Project Agent takes steps to resolve the issues.  This function lists possible issues that may prevent the undertaking of acquisition and steps to resolve those issues.
3.2.5.6.1	The Receive Appraisal Data function provides the assigned acquisition staff with the Appraisal Data.  This function provides the acquisition staff with the ability to retrieve the appraisal data from the system.
3.2.5.7.1	The Get Parcel Data function provides the acquisition staff the ability to get parcel data from the system.
3.2.5.8.1	The Current Title Check function provides the ability to track the age of the title data for a parcel and, if the title data has expired, will prompt the Acquisition Staff to order new title data and will provide an outline for ordering the title data.
3.2.5.9.1	The Retention Decision function provides the ROW Chief the ability to enter a decision and notify Property Management on the Department's desire to retain improvements to a parcel.
3.2.5.10.1	The Retention function gives the Acquisition Staff member the ability to enter the retention values for improvements into the system.
3.2.5.11.1	The Prepare Acquisition Package function provides form letters, contracts, permits, and deeds that go into an acquisition package.  This function also provides a checklist for the paperwork as it is entered into the package.
3.2.5.12.1	The Make First Offer function provides the Acquisition Staff member with a means of entering data in to the system for tracking contacts into the "Record of Contact."
3.2.5.13.1	The Determine Relocation Requirement function provides the ROW Agent a 90-day notice at time of Relocation Benefit Statement - not during acquisition process except under extenuating circumstances.  Acquisition Agent notifies Relocation and Property Management of the offer of first contact.
3.2.5.14.1	The Draft Response function provides the ability for the Acquisition Staff to enter the property owner's decision, draft a response, and forward a copy of the issues and response to the ROW Chief and Acquisition Supervisor.
3.2.5.15.1	The Approve Response function provides the ROW Chief with the ability to enter the approval of drafted response to the owner's concerns or to notify the Acquisition Supervisor and Acquisition staff member of edits to the drafted response.
3.2.5.16.1	The Negotiation function allows the Acquisition staff member to enter the property owner's counter offer into the system.  This counter offer is in response to the Department's reply to any initial owner concerns.  This function also allows the Acquisition staff member to prepare a recommendation to the counter offer.
3.2.5.17.1	The Approve Counter Offer function provides the ROW Chief the ability to enter a decision on the counter offer.
3.2.5.18.1	The Approve Settlement function provides the ROW Chief the ability to enter a decision on the recommendations made by the Acquisition staff member.
3.2.5.19.1	The Condemnation function provides the ability to enter the Pre-Construction Engineer's decision on whether to proceed with the condemnation.  This function also provides the ability to enter the ROW Chief’s decision on where to re-enter the acquisition process should the Pre-Construction Engineer decide to stop the condemnation process.  The Acquisition agent will enter all required data into the system.  In addition, the Condemnation function provides the Acquisition staff member with the required forms to fill out and to send notifications to Pre-Audit and to the Acquisition Supervisor to turn on the AG interface.
3.2.5.20.1	The FAA Processing function provides the Acquisition Staff with the forms needed to be filled out for FAA funding.  The FAA Processing functions also provides the ability to enter the AG's concerns into the system.
3.2.5.21.1	The Process Acceptance function notifies Property Management and Relocation of possession and provides the Acquisition staff member the ability to enter the title risk assessment into the system.
3.2.5.22.1	The Make Title Clearing Determination provides the ROW Chief the ability to enter the title clearing determination into the system and notifies the Acquisition Supervisor and Acquisition Staff  if title clearing needs to take place.
3.2.5.23.1	The Clear Title function allows the Acquisition staff member a checklist of what needs to be done and the appropriate forms to complete the title clearing.
3.2.5.24.1	The Prorate Taxes function provides the Acquisition Staff member the ability to enter a decision on if the taxes need to be pro-rated.  The Prorate Taxes function will calculate the pro-rated taxes, if needed.  Also notifies Pre-Audit that the acquisition package is ready for review and possible payment processing.
3.2.6.1.1	The On-site Inspection function provides the Relocation staff with a list of parcels with improvements.  The Relocation staff then identifies parcels that have relocation potential.
3.2.6.2.1	This function will allow the Relocation Supervisor to create a Scope, Schedule, and Budget for funding required for relocation activities and Phase 2 Design Relocation Statements.
3.2.6.3.1	The Receive Authority provides the Relocation staff the ability to determine if the Department received the authority to appraise and acquire.  If so, the Relocations staff obtains copies of the appraisals via the system for relocation parcels from Appraisals.  The Relocation staff then reviews appraisal information to identify what property is included in Just Compensation.
3.2.6.4.1	The Research Property function provides the Relocation staff the ability to retrieve appraisal information from the system, create relocation files, and provide inventory of comparable properties (with a modifiable interface).
3.2.6.5.1	The Interview Occupants provides the Relocation staff the ability to enter the scheduled appointment and their findings into the system.
3.2.6.6.1	The Determine Qualifications function provides the Relocation Agent with a checklist of qualifications.  In addition, this function provides the Relocation agent the ability to enter their justifications for their determination.
3.2.6.7.1	The Determine Benefits function provides the Relocation staff a checklist of possible benefits.  In addition, this function provides the Relocation staff the ability to enter justification for approving or denying a benefit.  Lastly, this function prints a report and sends it to the ROW Chief for approval.
3.2.6.8.1	The Benefit Approval function provides the ROW Chief the ability to enter an approval of the benefit statement or any objections.
3.2.6.9.1	The Make Offer function provides a form for the offer of benefits, 90-day notice and the appeal process.
3.2.6.10.1	The Financing function provides the Relocation staff with information to help with financing and a method to record the steps they have taken to help the occupant with obtaining financing.
3.2.6.11.1	The Move Inspection function provides the Relocation staff with the ability to enter any move inspection findings.
3.2.6.12.1	The Decent, Safe, and Sanitary (DS & S) Inspection function provides the Relocation Staff the ability to enter the DS & S Inspection findings.
3.2.6.13.1	The Property Close Out function provides the Relocation Agent with close out documents/forms.  Also, provides an entry for Relocation to enter their final inspection results.  Lastly, notifies Property Management and Pre-Audit (for claim for payment) that Relocation is done.
3.2.7.1.1	The Prepare Property Management Plan function provides the Property Management Agent the ability to retrieve the approved relocation plan from the system and enter for the Property Management Plan.
3.2.7.2.1	This function will allow the Property Management Supervisor to create a Scope, Schedule, and Budget for funding required for Property Management activities, Phase 2, and Phase 3 funding requirements.
3.2.7.3.1	The Approve Property Management Plan function provides the ROW Chief the ability to enter a decision on the Property Management Plan into the system.
3.2.7.4.1	The Determine Rentals function provides the Property Management Agent with the ability to enter rentals into the system and calculate the rental amount.
3.2.7.5.1	The Calculate Retention Value provides the Property Management Agent with the ability to calculate the retention value and the security deposit.  This function also notifies the ROW Chief of the retention value.
3.2.7.6.1	The Approve Retention Value function provide the ROW Chief the ability to enter an approval of the retention value into the system.
3.2.7.7.1	The Notify Acquisition function automatically notifies the Acquisition staff of the retention value and the required security deposit.  In addition, it provides the Property Management Agent the ability to record the owner's reply.  The owner's reply is input into the system by Acquisitions.
3.2.7.8.1	The Prepare Agreement function provides the Property Management Agent or Acquisition Agent with an agreement form to fill out and a place to record the security deposit and the date of the owner's signature.
3.2.7.9.1	The Approve Agreement function provides the ROW Chief the ability to enter a decision on the agreement into the system.
3.2.7.10.1	The Agreement Follow-up provides the Property Management Agent with the ability to track compliance with the agreement.  If necessary, it provides form letters for performance, default, and eviction notices.
3.2.7.11.1	The Final Inspection function provides the Property Management Agent with the ability to enter the final inspection findings.  If necessary, it provides default and eviction notices.  If the final inspection passes, notification is sent to Pre-Audit to release payment.
3.2.7.12.1	The Update Inventory function provides the Property Management Agent the ability to update the inventory in the system and notifies the Property Management Supervisor of the update.
3.2.7.13.1	The Forward Inventory function provides the Property Management Supervisor the ability to review the update and to forward the inventory to the ROW Chief.
3.2.7.14.1	The Rental Agreement function provides the Property Management Agent with a standard rental agreement.
3.2.7.15.1	The Collect Fees function provides the Property Management Agent with a means of entering the fees collected into the system and notifies Pre-Audit.
3.2.7.16.1	The Default Processing function provides the Property Management Agent with the means to enter actions taken for the default processing.
3.2.7.17.1	The Prepare Maintenance Agreement provides the Property Management Agent the ability to update the property management status report.  If necessary, this function provides a maintenance agreement to fill out.
3.2.7.18.1	The Prepare for Construction function provides for the entry of the decision if property is to be turned over to construction or put out to bid.  If put to bid, the Property Management Agent prepares a bid package.  If turned over to construction, the function provides the Property Management Agent with a list of activities in need of completion and sends a property management status report to construction.
3.2.7.19.1	The Notify Construction provides the Property Management Supervisor the ability to enter into the system the date property is vacated and ready to be demolished/removed.
3.2.8.1.1	The Pre-Audit staff receives a request notice from the system for an estimate & Project Development Authorization (PDA) for ROW incidental work in Design Phase 2 and Phase 3 funding for the Authority to Appraise and Acquire from the Design Project Manager.  Initiation of a project database file is completed by entering AKSAS number, Federal Project number, Design Project Manager, Pre-audit Team assignments, and any other pertinent information.
3.2.8.2.1	Pre-Audit receives the completed ROW plans and the system notifies Pre-Audit to initiate Phase 3 Authorization to Proceed (ATP)/funding request.
3.2.8.3.1	This function prompts Pre-Audit to prepare a cost estimate and submit it to the Design Project Manager.  Engineering submits costs for number of parcels, worker hours, number of sheets for ROW plans, number of parcel plats, etc.  Appraisal submits analysis by parcel of costs to acquire ROW and worker hours/contract costs.  Acquisitions submits worker hours and contract costs for acquisition and/or condemnation.  Relocations submits costs for relocation of property, as well as worker hours.  Property Management submits costs for demolition, removal, and management of property including worker hours required.  Pre-Audit determines and estimates the worker hours through project closeout based on the  data provided to the system from these other areas, Pre-Audit estimates the worker hours through the closeout of the project.
3.2.8.4.1	This function submits the cost estimate to Pre-Audit and the ROW Chief for approval.  The ROW Chief approves the ROW estimate prior to submittal to the Design Project Manager.  Once approved, the Cost Estimate is submitted to the Design Project Manager/Project Agent.  If cost estimate is not approved, Pre-Audit is automatically notified to redo and resubmit.
3.2.8.5.1	The Database Monitoring/Entry function will monitor the various databases to track the status of funding requests.  Pre-Audit will then update the status in the comment section of the database.
3.2.8.6.1	Pre-Audit receives the approved Project Development Authorization (PDA) and Authority to Proceed (ATP) for FHWA projects.  Pre-Audit will then input the data into a database and file along with getting the PDA and ATP into project file in the system.
3.2.8.7.1	The Notification function lets Pre-Audit notify the functional groups via the system that the Authority to Proceed (ATP) and funding has been received.  Pre-Audit then submits notice to the functional groups with the authority to proceed.
3.2.8.8.1	The Contractor Award Notification function is used to set up the contractor in the system (should be used to get the information for the independent contracts in the system).  Each group that requests the activities of the contract placement should establish them in the system when contracts are awarded and the system will notify Pre-Audit of awarded contract in order to encumber required funds.
3.2.8.9.1	After receiving funding, Pre-Audit determines if there are obligations that require encumbrances.  If there are obligations that require encumbrances, Pre-Audit requests, receives, and approves Professional Services Contract, Stock Requests, Approved Appraisal Review Estimates, anticipated obligations for legal fees, and anticipated obligations for relocation and property management fees.  This system function will provide a checklist for Pre-Audit to determine obligations that require encumbrances.
3.2.8.10.1	After receiving all necessary documents, Pre-Audit determines if the AKSAS funding is sufficient to cover project costs.  If the funding is not sufficient, Pre-Audit requests via the system that the cost estimate be revised and resubmitted.  If the funding is sufficient, Pre-Audit prepares and submits via the system a notice to Finance to encumber the funds.
3.2.8.11.1	The Notification of Encumbered Funds function notifies Finance of the need to encumber funds.  If it is determined that no obligations require encumbrances, Finance submits a notification via the system to Pre-Audit.
3.2.8.12.1	Once Pre-Audit receives notification that the funds are encumbered, Pre-Audit receives requests for payment via the system.  Determination is made if it is a Contract Payment, Acquisition Payment, Condemnation Payment, Relocation Payment, or an invoice payment.
3.2.8.13.1	The Code Funds function will automate the coding process by providing checklists for each type of payment and all necessary forms.  If it is a Contract Payment, Pre-Audit pulls up the files via the system, reviews the contract, makes any necessary coding corrections to the contract, confirms payment authorization and completes the database input form.  If it is an Acquisition Payment or a Condemnation Payment, Pre-Audit pulls up all acquisition related files, completes a parcel review form, completes database input form, completes transmittal checklist form, reviews transmittal documents and completes transmitted checklist.  If it is a Relocation Payment, Pre-Audit pulls acquisition and relocation files, completes relocation/parcel review form, completes relocation checklist form, determines relocation claim type, review transmitted documents and completes checklist.  If it is not a Contract, Acquisition, Condemnation or Relocation Payment, then it is an invoice payment, in which case Pre-Audit determines the type of invoice and/or financial obligation.  Pre-Audit determines if payment is eligible for Federal participation.  If the payment is not eligible for federal participation, Pre-Audit codes the payment to non-participating funds.  If the payment is eligible for federal funds, the payment is coded for participating funds.
3.2.8.14.1	The Review Budget/Request Additional Funds function will automate the budget review process.  After coding, the system determines if the funding is sufficient.  If the funding is not sufficient, Pre-Audit accesses the system to review the budget, reviews all current authorized estimates, review current expenditures on AKSAS, and revise authorization to meet current/anticipated expenditures.  Pre-Audit inputs revised data into the cost estimate via the Design Project Manager to the Project Control and submits a request for additional funds.
3.2.8.15.1	After funding is sufficient, Pre-Audit inputs all data into the system for tracking, reporting, and queries.
3.2.8.16.1	After all information is captured in the system, this function will route the purchase voucher and agreement documentation to the ROW Chief for signature approval.  If the Chief does not approve, notification is sent back to Pre-Audit for additional information and corrections.
3.2.8.17.1	If it is an acquisition/relocation payment, Pre-Audit forwards the invoice to Finance with a request for a return warrant to Pre-Audit. If it is not an acquisition/relocation payment, Pre-Audit forwards approved invoice to Finance for payment and the process is complete.
3.2.8.18.1	Pre-Audit receives the warrant from Finance and Pre-Audit determines if it is an acquisition warrant.  If it is not an acquisition warrant, Pre-Audit mails the warrant and signed relocation claim documents to the payee with a return receipt request. Only acquisition and relocations payments are return warrants.  Other invoice payments are mailed directly from the Department of Administration in Juneau.
3.2.8.19.1	The return receipt function will track the receipt of the return receipt in the system.  Once the return receipt is received and filed, the payment process is complete.  If it is an acquisition warrant, the Pre-Audit supervisor records documents, mails warrants, and signed acquisition documents to payee with return receipt request.  Once the return receipt is received and filed, the system notifies relocations and property management supervisors of date of property owner receipt of payment.  Upon notification, the payment process is complete.
3.2.8.20.1	This function will notify Pre-Audit of Revenue payment.
3.2.8.21.1	Pre-Audit determines if payment is project related.  If the revenue is not project related, Pre-Audit codes it in the system as unrestricted.  If the revenue is project related, Pre-Audit codes it for that particular project in the system.  Pre-Audit inputs the revenue into the database and the system notifies Finance.
3.2.8.22.1	The ROW Chief or Engineering Supervisor notifies Pre-Audit of certification and Pre-Audit adds the project to the closeout list.
3.2.8.23.1	Once the project is added to the closeout list, Pre-Audit determines if all ROW activities are complete.  The system will provide a checklist of all ROW activity, and if not complete, Pre-Audit continues to track the activities.  This function provides Pre-Audit with a completion checklist.
3.2.8.24.1	If all ROW activities are complete, Pre-Audit reviews conveyance documents and plans then performs financial reconciliation.  This includes pulling ROW Plans, pulling parcel files and core documents, confirming all ROW Unit Supervisors concur in closure of project, confirming Last Resort Housing (LRH) loans are paid in full and reviews ROW Plans with conveyance documents.
3.2.8.24.2	Pre-Audit determines if ROW Plans and conveyance documents reconcile.  If the ROW Plans and conveyance documents did not reconcile, Pre-Audit obtains required corrections and reconciles ROW Plans and conveyance documents again.
3.2.8.24.3	Once the ROW Plans and conveyance documents reconcile Pre-Audit reviews and totals account code costs and compares totals with AKSAS.  Pre-Audit determines if account code costs and AKSAS records reconcile.  If account code costs and AKSAS do not reconcile, Pre-Audit researches the difference and requests the necessary corrections.
3.2.8.25.1	Once account code costs and AKSAS reconcile, the system prepares a summary spreadsheet for Pre-Audit.
3.2.8.26.1	Once the summary spreadsheet is complete, Pre-Audit prepares and distributes via the system a closeout memo and submits a signed Project Completion Form to Project Control.
3.4.1.1.1	This system will be used primarily to extract information from projects currently in process at the time of cutover to the new Project Development System.  It is written in Microsoft Access and is used by Pre-Audit to track project and parcel-related expenditures and revenues, condemnation cases and Professional Service Agreements.  The reports currently generated in Sisyphus will need to be duplicated in the new Project Development system.
3.5.1.1	The standard database for Department systems is Oracle running on Unix servers.  Oracle provides a robust and scalable relational database management system capability.  The application system specified by this SRS shall be implemented using Oracle as its database.
3.5.2.1	The Department has defined a systems architecture that utilizes: 1. Oracle as its database, 2. An application server (where most of the business logic resides), and 3. CORBA middleware (providing an interface to the application server).  Contractors have access to the system via the web, while DOT employees have access to the system via Java applications on their DOT computers.  Both the web interface and the Java application interface communicate with the applications server via the CORBA interface in order to provide consistent access control, monitoring, and problem notification.
3.5.3.1	While other language can be used with a CORBA application architecture, the Java language is in common use.  A significant number of programmers have experience with the Java language, it has object oriented features which contribute to building reliable software, a large number of third party vendors provide tools which interface with Java, and it runs on both the Department’s Unix servers and on Windows workstations.
3.5.4.1	The Department’s preferred web server for implementing secure, encrypted systems is Netscape Enterprise server.
3.5.5.1	The Department uses an LDAP server to provide user ID and password authentication for applications.  The Right of Way project development application shall use the LDAP server to authenticate user IDs if authentication is needed. In addition, the LDAP server associates users with groups and privilege.  The user authorizations should be done through the LDAP mechanism.  Email addresses for users should also be retrieved from this service, rather than storing them separately in an application database.
3.6.3.1.1	Since contractor personnel will be using the Project Development system outside of the Department LAN to enter sensitive data, the data streams should be encrypted.
3.6.4.1	Maintainability attributes to consider include the distribution of users (both employee and non-employee) and the possible implications for statewide installation and maintenance.  These would be considerations about whether the Department user interface can, should, or must be a web application, or a client executable.